# T1059.005 - Visual Basic
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1059.005)
<blockquote>Adversaries may abuse Visual Basic (VB) for execution. VB is a programming language created by Microsoft with interoperability with many Windows technologies such as [Component Object Model](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1559/001) and the [Native API](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1106) through the Windows API. Although tagged as legacy with no planned future evolutions, VB is integrated and supported in the .NET Framework and cross-platform .NET Core.(Citation: VB .NET Mar 2020)(Citation: VB Microsoft)

Derivative languages based on VB have also been created, such as Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) and VBScript. VBA is an event-driven programming language built into Office applications.(Citation: Microsoft VBA)  VBA enables documents to contain macros used to automate the execution of tasks and other functionality on the host. VBScript is a default scripting language on Windows hosts and can also be used in place of [JavaScript/JScript](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/007) on HTML Application (HTA) webpages served to Internet Explorer (though most modern browsers do not come with VBScript support).(Citation: Microsoft VBScript)

Adversaries may use VB payloads to execute malicious commands. Common malicious usage includes automating execution of behaviors with VBScript or embedding VBA content into [Spearphishing Attachment](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566/001) payloads.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Visual Basic script execution to gather local computer information](#atomic-test-1---visual-basic-script-execution-to-gather-local-computer-information)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Visual Basic script execution to gather local computer information
Visual Basic execution test, execute vbscript via PowerShell.

When successful, system information will be written to $env:TEMP\T1059.005.out.txt.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows




#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| vbscript | Path to sample script | String | PathToAtomicsFolder&#92;T1059.005&#92;src&#92;sys_info.vbs|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
cscript #{vbscript} > $env:TEMP\out.txt
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
Remove-Item $env:TEMP\sys_info.vbs -ErrorAction Ignore
Remove-Item $env:TEMP\T1059.005.out.txt -ErrorAction Ignore
```



#### Dependencies:  Run with `powershell`!
##### Description: Sample script must exist on disk at specified location (#{vbscript})
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
if (Test-Path #{vbscript}) {exit 0} else {exit 1} 
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
Invoke-WebRequest "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redcanaryco/atomic-red-team/master/atomics/T1059.005/src/sys_info.vbs" -OutFile "$env:TEMP\sys_info.vbs"
New-Item -ItemType Directory (Split-Path #{vbscript}) -Force | Out-Null
Copy-Item $env:TEMP\sys_info.vbs #{vbscript} -Force
```




<br/>
