# T1090.003 - Multi-hop Proxy
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/003)
<blockquote>To disguise the source of malicious traffic, adversaries may chain together multiple proxies. Typically, a defender will be able to identify the last proxy traffic traversed before it enters their network; the defender may or may not be able to identify any previous proxies before the last-hop proxy. This technique makes identifying the original source of the malicious traffic even more difficult by requiring the defender to trace malicious traffic through several proxies to identify its source. A particular variant of this behavior is to use onion routing networks, such as the publicly available TOR network. (Citation: Onion Routing)

In the case of network infrastructure, particularly routers, it is possible for an adversary to leverage multiple compromised devices to create a multi-hop proxy chain within the Wide-Area Network (WAN) of the enterprise.  By leveraging [Patch System Image](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601/001), adversaries can add custom code to the affected network devices that will implement onion routing between those nodes.  This custom onion routing network will transport the encrypted C2 traffic through the compromised population, allowing adversaries to communicate with any device within the onion routing network.  This method is dependent upon the [Network Boundary Bridging](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1599) method in order to allow the adversaries to cross the protected network boundary of the Internet perimeter and into the organization’s WAN. Protocols such as ICMP may be used as a transport.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Psiphon](#atomic-test-1---psiphon)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Psiphon
Psiphon 3 is a circumvention tool from Psiphon Inc. that utilizes VPN, SSH and HTTP Proxy technology to provide you
with uncensored access to Internet.
This process will launch Psiphon 3 and establish a connection. Shortly after it will be shut down via process kill commands.
More information can be found about Psiphon using the following urls
http://s3.amazonaws.com/0ubz-2q11-gi9y/en.html
https://psiphon.ca/faq.html

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** 14d55ca0-920e-4b44-8425-37eedd72b173






#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
PathToAtomicsFolder\T1090.003\src\Psiphon.bat
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
$Proxy = Get-Content $env:Temp\proxy-backup.txt -ErrorAction Ignore
if($null -ne $Proxy) 
{Set-ItemProperty -Path 'HKCU:\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Internet Settings' -Name "ProxyServer" -Value $Proxy}
```



#### Dependencies:  Run with `powershell`!
##### Description: The proxy settings backup file must exist on disk at $env:Temp\proxy-backup.txt
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
if (Test-Path $env:Temp\proxy-backup.txt) {exit 0} else {exit 1}
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
if(-not (test-path $env:Temp\proxy-backup.txt)){
$Proxy = (Get-ItemProperty -Path 'HKCU:\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Internet Settings' -Name "ProxyServer" -ErrorAction Ignore).ProxyServer
Set-Content $env:Temp\proxy-backup.txt $Proxy}
```
##### Description: The Psiphon executable must exist in the Downloads folder
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
if (Test-Path $env:UserProfile\Downloads\psiphon3.exe) {exit 0} else {exit 1}
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
Invoke-WebRequest -OutFile "$env:UserProfile\Downloads\psiphon3.exe" "https://s3.amazonaws.com/0ubz-2q11-gi9y/psiphon3.exe"
```




<br/>
