# T1047 - Windows Management Instrumentation
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1047)
<blockquote>Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) is a Windows administration feature that provides a uniform environment for local and remote access to Windows system components. It relies on the WMI service for local and remote access and the server message block (SMB) (Citation: Wikipedia SMB) and Remote Procedure Call Service (RPCS) (Citation: TechNet RPC) for remote access. RPCS operates over port 135. (Citation: MSDN WMI)

An adversary can use WMI to interact with local and remote systems and use it as a means to perform many tactic functions, such as gathering information for Discovery and remote Execution of files as part of Lateral Movement. (Citation: FireEye WMI 2015)

Detection: Monitor network traffic for WMI connections; the use of WMI in environments that do not typically use WMI may be suspect. Perform process monitoring to capture command-line arguments of "wmic" and detect commands that are used to perform remote behavior. (Citation: FireEye WMI 2015)

Platforms: Windows

Data Sources: Authentication logs, Netflow/Enclave netflow, Process command-line parameters, Process monitoring

Permissions Required: User, Administrator

System Requirements: WMI service, winmgmt, running.
Host/network firewalls allowing SMB and WMI ports from source to destination.
SMB authentication.

Remote Support: Yes</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - WMI Reconnaissance Users](#atomic-test-1---wmi-reconnaissance-users)

- [Atomic Test #2 - WMI Reconnaissance Processes](#atomic-test-2---wmi-reconnaissance-processes)

- [Atomic Test #3 - WMI Reconnaissance Software](#atomic-test-3---wmi-reconnaissance-software)

- [Atomic Test #4 - WMI Reconnaissance List Remote Services](#atomic-test-4---wmi-reconnaissance-list-remote-services)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - WMI Reconnaissance Users
WMI List User Accounts

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
wmic useraccount get /ALL
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - WMI Reconnaissance Processes
WMI List Processes

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
wmic process get caption,executablepath,commandline
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - WMI Reconnaissance Software
WMI List Software

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
wmic qfe get description,installedOn /format:csv
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #4 - WMI Reconnaissance List Remote Services
WMI List Remote Services

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Inputs
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| node | Ip Address | String | 192.168.0.1|
| service_search_string | Name Of Service | String | sql server|

#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
wmic /node:"#{node}" service where (caption like "%#{service_search_string} (%")
```
<br/>
