# T1027 - Obfuscated Files or Information
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1027)
<blockquote>Adversaries may attempt to make an executable or file difficult to discover or analyze by encrypting, encoding, or otherwise obfuscating its contents on the system or in transit. This is common behavior that can be used across different platforms and the network to evade defenses.

Payloads may be compressed, archived, or encrypted in order to avoid detection. These payloads may be used during Initial Access or later to mitigate detection. Sometimes a user's action may be required to open and [Deobfuscate/Decode Files or Information](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1140) for [User Execution](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204). The user may also be required to input a password to open a password protected compressed/encrypted file that was provided by the adversary. (Citation: Volexity PowerDuke November 2016) Adversaries may also used compressed or archived scripts, such as Javascript.

Portions of files can also be encoded to hide the plain-text strings that would otherwise help defenders with discovery. (Citation: Linux/Cdorked.A We Live Security Analysis) Payloads may also be split into separate, seemingly benign files that only reveal malicious functionality when reassembled. (Citation: Carbon Black Obfuscation Sept 2016)

Adversaries may also obfuscate commands executed from payloads or directly via a [Command-Line Interface](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059). Environment variables, aliases, characters, and other platform/language specific semantics can be used to evade signature based detections and whitelisting mechanisms. (Citation: FireEye Obfuscation June 2017) (Citation: FireEye Revoke-Obfuscation July 2017) (Citation: PaloAlto EncodedCommand March 2017)

Another example of obfuscation is through the use of steganography, a technique of hiding messages or code in images, audio tracks, video clips, or text files. One of the first known and reported adversaries that used steganography activity surrounding [Invoke-PSImage](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0231). The Duqu malware encrypted the gathered information from a victim's system and hid it into an image followed by exfiltrating the image to a C2 server. (Citation: Wikipedia Duqu) By the end of 2017, an adversary group used [Invoke-PSImage](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0231) to hide PowerShell commands in an image file (png) and execute the code on a victim's system. In this particular case the PowerShell code downloaded another obfuscated script to gather intelligence from the victim's machine and communicate it back to the adversary. (Citation: McAfee Malicious Doc Targets Pyeongchang Olympics)</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Decode base64 Data into Script](#atomic-test-1---decode-base64-data-into-script)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Execute base64-encoded PowerShell](#atomic-test-2---execute-base64-encoded-powershell)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Execute base64-encoded PowerShell from Windows Registry](#atomic-test-3---execute-base64-encoded-powershell-from-windows-registry)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Decode base64 Data into Script
Creates a base64-encoded data file and decodes it into an executable shell script

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux





#### Attack Commands: Run with `sh`! 


```sh
sh -c "echo ZWNobyBIZWxsbyBmcm9tIHRoZSBBdG9taWMgUmVkIFRlYW0= > /tmp/encoded.dat"
cat /tmp/encoded.dat | base64 -d > /tmp/art.sh
chmod +x /tmp/art.sh
/tmp/art.sh
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Execute base64-encoded PowerShell
Creates base64-encoded PowerShell code and executes it. This is used by numerous adversaries and malicious tools.
Upon execution the test will print "Hey, Atomic!" to the PowerShell session

**Supported Platforms:** Windows




#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| powershell_command | PowerShell command to encode | String | Write-Host "Hey, Atomic!"|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
$OriginalCommand = '#{powershell_command}'
$Bytes = [System.Text.Encoding]::Unicode.GetBytes($OriginalCommand)
$EncodedCommand =[Convert]::ToBase64String($Bytes)
$EncodedCommand
powershell.exe -EncodedCommand $EncodedCommand
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Execute base64-encoded PowerShell from Windows Registry
Stores base64-encoded PowerShell code in the Windows Registry and deobfuscates it for execution. This is used by numerous adversaries and malicious tools.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows




#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| powershell_command | PowerShell command to encode | String | Write-Host "Hey, Atomic!"|
| registry_key_storage | Windows Registry Key to store code | String | HKCU:Software&#92;Microsoft&#92;Windows&#92;CurrentVersion|
| registry_entry_storage | Windows Registry entry to store code under key | String | Debug|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
$OriginalCommand = '#{powershell_command}'
$Bytes = [System.Text.Encoding]::Unicode.GetBytes($OriginalCommand)
$EncodedCommand =[Convert]::ToBase64String($Bytes)
$EncodedCommand

Set-ItemProperty -Force -Path #{registry_key_storage} -Name #{registry_entry_storage} -Value $EncodedCommand
powershell.exe -Command "IEX ([Text.Encoding]::UNICODE.GetString([Convert]::FromBase64String((gp #{registry_key_storage} #{registry_entry_storage}).#{registry_entry_storage})))"
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
Remove-ItemProperty -Force -ErrorAction Ignore -Path #{registry_key_storage} -Name #{registry_entry_storage}
```





<br/>
