# T1037.002 - Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Logon Script (Mac)
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1037/002)
<blockquote>Adversaries may use a Login Hook to establish persistence executed upon user logon. A login hook is a plist file that points to a specific script to execute with root privileges upon user logon. The plist file is located in the <code>/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist</code> file and can be modified using the <code>defaults</code> command-line utility. This behavior is the same for logout hooks where a script can be executed upon user logout. All hooks require administrator permissions to modify or create hooks.(Citation: Login Scripts Apple Dev)(Citation: LoginWindowScripts Apple Dev) 

Adversaries can add or insert a path to a malicious script in the <code>com.apple.loginwindow.plist</code> file, using the <code>LoginHook</code> or <code>LogoutHook</code> key-value pair. The malicious script is executed upon the next user login. If a login hook already exists, adversaries can add additional commands to an existing login hook. There can be only one login and logout hook on a system at a time.(Citation: S1 macOs Persistence)(Citation: Wardle Persistence Chapter)

**Note:** Login hooks were deprecated in 10.11 version of macOS in favor of [Launch Daemon](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/004) and [Launch Agent](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/001) </blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Logon Scripts - Mac](#atomic-test-1---logon-scripts---mac)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Logon Scripts - Mac
Mac logon script

**Supported Platforms:** macOS


**auto_generated_guid:** f047c7de-a2d9-406e-a62b-12a09d9516f4





#### Run it with these steps! 
1. Create the required plist file

    sudo touch /private/var/root/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist

2. Populate the plist with the location of your shell script

    sudo defaults write com.apple.loginwindow LoginHook /Library/Scripts/AtomicRedTeam.sh

3. Create the required plist file in the target user's Preferences directory

	  touch /Users/$USER/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist

4. Populate the plist with the location of your shell script

	  defaults write com.apple.loginwindow LoginHook /Library/Scripts/AtomicRedTeam.sh







<br/>
