# T1036.006 - Masquerading: Space after Filename
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/006)
<blockquote>Adversaries can hide a program's true filetype by changing the extension of a file. With certain file types (specifically this does not work with .app extensions), appending a space to the end of a filename will change how the file is processed by the operating system.

For example, if there is a Mach-O executable file called <code>evil.bin</code>, when it is double clicked by a user, it will launch Terminal.app and execute. If this file is renamed to <code>evil.txt</code>, then when double clicked by a user, it will launch with the default text editing application (not executing the binary). However, if the file is renamed to <code>evil.txt </code> (note the space at the end), then when double clicked by a user, the true file type is determined by the OS and handled appropriately and the binary will be executed (Citation: Mac Backdoors are back).

Adversaries can use this feature to trick users into double clicking benign-looking files of any format and ultimately executing something malicious.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Space After Filename (Manual)](#atomic-test-1---space-after-filename-manual)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Space After Filename](#atomic-test-2---space-after-filename)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Space After Filename (Manual)
Space After Filename

**Supported Platforms:** macOS


**auto_generated_guid:** 89a7dd26-e510-4c9f-9b15-f3bae333360f





#### Run it with these steps! 
1. echo '#!/bin/bash\necho "print \"hello, world!\"" | /usr/bin/python\nexit' > execute.txt && chmod +x execute.txt

2. mv execute.txt "execute.txt "

3. ./execute.txt\ 







<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Space After Filename
Space after filename.

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux


**auto_generated_guid:** b95ce2eb-a093-4cd8-938d-5258cef656ea






#### Attack Commands: Run with `bash`! 


```bash
mkdir -p /tmp/atomic-test-T1036.006
cd /tmp/atomic-test-T1036.006
mkdir -p 'testdirwithspaceend '
/usr/bin/echo -e "%d\na\n#!/usr/bin/perl\nprint \"running T1035.006 with space after filename to masquerade init\\n\";\nqx/cp \/usr\/bin\/perl 'init  '/;\nqx/'.\/init  ' -e 'sleep 5'/;\n.\nwq\n" | ed 'testdirwithspaceend /init ' >/dev/null
chmod +x 'testdirwithspaceend /init '
'./testdirwithspaceend /init '
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```bash
rm -rf /tmp/atomic-test-T1036.006
```





<br/>
