# T1055.015 - Process Injection: ListPlanting
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/015)
<blockquote>Adversaries may abuse list-view controls to inject malicious code into hijacked processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. ListPlanting is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.(Citation: Hexacorn Listplanting) Code executed via ListPlanting may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

List-view controls are user interface windows used to display collections of items.(Citation: Microsoft List View Controls) Information about an application's list-view settings are stored within the process' memory in a <code>SysListView32</code> control.

ListPlanting (a form of message-passing "shatter attack") may be performed by copying code into the virtual address space of a process that uses a list-view control then using that code as a custom callback for sorting the listed items.(Citation: Modexp Windows Process Injection) Adversaries must first copy code into the target process’ memory space, which can be performed various ways including by directly obtaining a handle to the <code>SysListView32</code> child of the victim process window (via Windows API calls such as <code>FindWindow</code> and/or <code>EnumWindows</code>) or other [Process Injection](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055) methods.

Some variations of ListPlanting may allocate memory in the target process but then use window messages to copy the payload, to avoid the use of the highly monitored <code>WriteProcessMemory</code> function. For example, an adversary can use the <code>PostMessage</code> and/or <code>SendMessage</code> API functions to send <code>LVM_SETITEMPOSITION</code> and <code>LVM_GETITEMPOSITION</code> messages, effectively copying a payload 2 bytes at a time to the allocated memory.(Citation: ESET InvisiMole June 2020) 

Finally, the payload is triggered by sending the <code>LVM_SORTITEMS</code> message to the <code>SysListView32</code> child of the process window, with the payload within the newly allocated buffer passed and executed as the <code>ListView_SortItems</code> callback.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Process injection ListPlanting](#atomic-test-1---process-injection-listplanting)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Process injection ListPlanting
This test injects shellcode into a remote RegEdit process using the ListPlanting technique. ListPlanting exploits Window with ListView control. Code write to memory with NtWriteVirtualMemory. The shellcode is executed via PostMessage. When successful, a message box will appear with the title "Warning" and the content "Atomic Red Team" after a few seconds. Notepad will open following the appearance of the message box.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** 4f3c7502-b111-4dfe-8a6e-529307891a59





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| exe_binary | PE binary | path | PathToAtomicsFolder&#92;T1055.015&#92;bin&#92;ListPlanting.exe|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
Start-Process "#{exe_binary}"
Start-Sleep -Seconds 7
Get-Process -Name Notepad -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue | Stop-Process -Force
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
Get-Process -Name Notepad -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue | Stop-Process -Force
```



#### Dependencies:  Run with `powershell`!
##### Description: Injector ListPlanting.exe must exist at specified location (#{exe_binary})
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
if (Test-Path "#{exe_binary}") {exit 0} else {exit 1}
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
New-Item -Type Directory (split-path "#{exe_binary}") -ErrorAction ignore | Out-Null
Invoke-WebRequest "https://github.com/redcanaryco/atomic-red-team/raw/master/atomics/T1055.015/bin/ListPlanting.exe" -OutFile "#{exe_binary}"
```




<br/>
