# T1562.004 - Disable or Modify System Firewall
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1562.004)
<blockquote>Adversaries may disable or modify system firewalls in order to bypass controls limiting network usage. Changes could be disabling the entire mechanism as well as adding, deleting, or modifying particular rules. This can be done numerous ways depending on the operating system, including via command-line, editing Windows Registry keys, and Windows Control Panel.

Modifying or disabling a system firewall may enable adversary C2 communications, lateral movement, and/or data exfiltration that would otherwise not be allowed. </blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Disable iptables firewall](#atomic-test-1---disable-iptables-firewall)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Disable Microsoft Defender Firewall](#atomic-test-2---disable-microsoft-defender-firewall)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Allow SMB and RDP on Microsoft Defender Firewall](#atomic-test-3---allow-smb-and-rdp-on-microsoft-defender-firewall)

- [Atomic Test #4 - Opening ports for proxy - HARDRAIN](#atomic-test-4---opening-ports-for-proxy---hardrain)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Disable iptables firewall
Disables the iptables firewall

**Supported Platforms:** Linux





#### Attack Commands: Run with `sh`! 


```sh
if [ $(rpm -q --queryformat '%{VERSION}' centos-release) -eq "6" ];
then
  service iptables stop
  chkconfig off iptables
  service ip6tables stop
  chkconfig off ip6tables
else if [ $(rpm -q --queryformat '%{VERSION}' centos-release) -eq "7" ];
  systemctl stop firewalld
  systemctl disable firewalld
fi
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Disable Microsoft Defender Firewall
Disables the Microsoft Defender Firewall for the current profile.
Caution if you access remotely the host where the test runs! Especially with the cleanup command which will re-enable firewall for the current profile...

**Supported Platforms:** Windows





#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`! 


```cmd
netsh advfirewall set currentprofile state off
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```cmd
netsh advfirewall set currentprofile state on
```





<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Allow SMB and RDP on Microsoft Defender Firewall
Allow all SMB and RDP rules on the Microsoft Defender Firewall for all profiles.
Caution if you access remotely the host where the test runs! Especially with the cleanup command which will reset the firewall and risk disabling those services...

**Supported Platforms:** Windows





#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`! 


```cmd
netsh advfirewall firewall set rule group="remote desktop" new enable=Yes
netsh advfirewall firewall set rule group="file and printer sharing" new enable=Yes
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```cmd
netsh advfirewall reset
```





<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #4 - Opening ports for proxy - HARDRAIN
This test creates a listening interface on a victim device. This tactic was used by HARDRAIN for proxying.

reference: https://www.us-cert.gov/sites/default/files/publications/MAR-10135536-F.pdf

**Supported Platforms:** Windows





#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```cmd
netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="atomic testing" action=allow dir=in protocol=TCP localport=450
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```cmd
netsh advfirewall firewall delete rule name="atomic testing" protocol=TCP localport=450
```





<br/>
