# T1055.003 - Thread Execution Hijacking
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/003)
<blockquote>Adversaries may inject malicious code into hijacked processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Thread Execution Hijacking is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Thread Execution Hijacking is commonly performed by suspending an existing process then unmapping/hollowing its memory, which can then be replaced with malicious code or the path to a DLL. A handle to an existing victim process is first created with native Windows API calls such as <code>OpenThread</code>. At this point the process can be suspended then written to, realigned to the injected code, and resumed via <code>SuspendThread </code>, <code>VirtualAllocEx</code>, <code>WriteProcessMemory</code>, <code>SetThreadContext</code>, then <code>ResumeThread</code> respectively.(Citation: Elastic Process Injection July 2017)

This is very similar to [Process Hollowing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/012) but targets an existing process rather than creating a process in a suspended state.  

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via Thread Execution Hijacking may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. </blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Thread Execution Hijacking](#atomic-test-1---thread-execution-hijacking)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Thread Execution Hijacking
This test injects a MessageBox shellcode generated by msfvenom in Notepad.exe using Thread Execution Hijacking. When successful, a message box will appear with the "Atomic Red Team" caption after one or two seconds.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** 578025d5-faa9-4f6d-8390-aae527d503e1






#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
$notepad = Start-Process notepad -passthru
Start-Process $PathToAtomicsFolder\T1055.003\bin\InjectContext.exe
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
Stop-Process $notepad.pid
```





<br/>
