# T1680 - Local Storage Discovery

## Description from ATT&CK

> Adversaries may enumerate local drives, disks, and/or volumes and their attributes like total or free space and volume serial number. This can be done to prepare for ransomware-related encryption, to perform [Lateral Movement](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0109), or as a precursor to [Direct Volume Access](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1006).
> 
> On ESXi systems, adversaries may use [Hypervisor CLI](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/012) commands such as `esxcli` to list storage connected to the host as well as `.vmdk` files.(Citation: TrendMicro)(Citation: TrendMicro ESXI Ransomware)
> 
> On Windows systems, adversaries can use `wmic logicaldisk get` to find information about local network drives. They can also use `Get-PSDrive` in PowerShell to retrieve drives and may additionally use Windows API functions such as `GetDriveType`.(Citation: Trend Micro MUSTANG PANDA PUBLOAD HIUPAN SEPTEMBER 2024)(Citation: Volexity)
> 
> Linux has commands such as `parted`, `lsblk`, `fdisk`, `lshw`, and `df` that can list information about disk partitions such as size, type, file system types, and free space. The command `diskutil` on MacOS can be used to list disks while `system_profiler SPStorageDataType` can additionally show information such as a volume’s mount path, file system, and the type of drive in the system.
> 
> Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud providers also have commands for storage discovery such as `describe volume` in AWS, `gcloud compute disks list` in GCP, and `az disk list` in Azure.(Citation: AWS docs describe volumes)(Citation: GCP gcloud compute disks list)(Citation: azure az disk)

[Source](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1680)

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1: Local Storage Discovery via PSDrive](#atomic-test-1-local-storage-discovery-via-psdrive)
- [Atomic Test #2: Local Storage Discovery via wmic ](#atomic-test-2-local-storage-discovery-via-wmic-)

### Atomic Test #1: Local Storage Discovery via PSDrive

Will enumerate logical drives and file system details using the "Get-PSDrive" Powershell cmdlet. Get-Volume is then used to get details status, capacity, and file system information for all storage volumes on a system.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows

**auto_generated_guid:** `3a4d51bd-b0f5-4249-821c-ba8997c42c00`

#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!

```powershell
Get-PSDrive -PSProvider FileSystem
Get-Volume
```

### Atomic Test #2: Local Storage Discovery via wmic 

Will enumerate logical drives and file system details using the "Get-PSDrive" Powershell cmdlet. Get-Volume is then used to get details status, capacity, and file system information for all storage volumes on a system.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows

**auto_generated_guid:** `1c11a623-e783-4b2f-ad4a-0a62591e8f85`

#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`!

```cmd
wmic logicaldisk get deviceid, freespace, size, volumeserialnumber
```

