# T1176 - Browser Extensions Mitigation
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1176)
<blockquote>Only install browser extensions from trusted sources that can be verified. Ensure extensions that are installed are the intended ones as many malicious extensions will masquerade as legitimate ones.

Browser extensions for some browsers can be controlled through Group Policy. Set a browser extension white or black list as appropriate for your security policy. (Citation: Technospot Chrome Extensions GP)

Change settings to prevent the browser from installing extensions without sufficient permissions.

Close out all browser sessions when finished using them.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Chrome (Developer Mode)](#atomic-test-1---chrome-developer-mode)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Chrome (Chrome Web Store)](#atomic-test-2---chrome-chrome-web-store)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Firefox](#atomic-test-3---firefox)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Chrome (Developer Mode)
xxx

**Supported Platforms:** linux, windows, macos


#### Run it with these steps!
1. Navigate to [chrome://extensions](chrome://extensions) and
tick 'Developer Mode'.

2. Click 'Load unpacked extension...' and navigate to
[Browser_Extension](../t1176/)

3. Click 'Select'


<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Chrome (Chrome Web Store)
xxx

**Supported Platforms:** linux, windows, macos


#### Run it with these steps!
1. Navigate to https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/minimum-viable-malicious/odlpfdolehmhciiebahbpnaopneicend
in Chrome

2. Click 'Add to Chrome'


<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Firefox
Create a file called test.wma, with the duration of 30 seconds

**Supported Platforms:** linux, windows, macos


#### Run it with these steps!
1. Navigate to [about:debugging](about:debugging) and
click "Load Temporary Add-on"

2. Navigate to [manifest.json](./manifest.json)

3. Then click 'Open'

<br/>
