# T1083 - File and Directory Discovery
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1083)
<blockquote>Adversaries may enumerate files and directories or may search in specific locations of a host or network share for certain information within a file system. 

===Windows===

Example utilities used to obtain this information are <code>dir</code> and <code>tree</code>. (Citation: Windows Commands JPCERT) Custom tools may also be used to gather file and directory information and interact with the Windows API.

===Mac and Linux===

In Mac and Linux, this kind of discovery is accomplished with the <code>ls</code>, <code>find</code>, and <code>locate</code> commands.

Detection: System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Collection and Exfiltration, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell.

Platforms: Linux, macOS, Windows

Data Sources: File monitoring, Process command-line parameters, Process monitoring

Permissions Required: User, Administrator, SYSTEM

System Requirements: Some folders may require Administrator, SYSTEM or specific user depending on permission levels and access controls</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - File and Directory Discovery](#atomic-test-1---file-and-directory-discovery)

- [Atomic Test #2 - File and Directory Discovery](#atomic-test-2---file-and-directory-discovery)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Nix File and Diectory Discovery](#atomic-test-3---nix-file-and-diectory-discovery)

- [Atomic Test #4 - Nix File and Directory Discovery](#atomic-test-4---nix-file-and-directory-discovery)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - File and Directory Discovery
Find or discover files on the file system

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
dir /s c:\ >> %temp%\download
dir /s "c:\Documents and Settings" >> %temp%\download
dir /s "c:\Program Files\" >> %temp%\download
dir /s d:\ >> %temp%\download
dir "%systemdrive%\Users\*.*" >> %temp%\download
dir "%userprofile%\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Recent\*.*" >> %temp%\download
dir "%userprofile%\Desktop\*.*" >> %temp%\download
tree /F >> %temp%\download
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - File and Directory Discovery
Find or discover files on the file system

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `powershell`!
```
ls -recurse
get-childitem -recurse
gci -recurse
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Nix File and Diectory Discovery
Find or discover files on the file system

References:

http://osxdaily.com/2013/01/29/list-all-files-subdirectory-contents-recursively/

https://perishablepress.com/list-files-folders-recursively-terminal/

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux


#### Run it with `sh`!
```
ls -a > allcontents.txt
ls -la /Library/Preferences/ > detailedprefsinfo.txt
file */* *>> ../files.txt
find . -type f
ls -R | grep ":$" | sed -e 's/:$//' -e 's/[^-][^\/]*\//--/g' -e 's/^/ /' -e 's/-/|/'
locate *
which sh
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #4 - Nix File and Directory Discovery
Find or discover files on the file system

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux


#### Run it with `sh`!
```
cd $HOME && find . -print | sed -e 's;[^/]*/;|__;g;s;__|; |;g' > /tmp/loot.txt
cat /etc/mtab > /tmp/loot.txt
find . -type f -iname *.pdf > /tmp/loot.txt
find . -type f -name ".*"
```
<br/>
