# T1160 - Launch Daemon
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1160)
<blockquote>Per Apple’s developer documentation, when macOS and OS X boot up, launchd is run to finish system initialization. This process loads the parameters for each launch-on-demand system-level daemon from the property list (plist) files found in <code>/System/Library/LaunchDaemons</code> and <code>/Library/LaunchDaemons</code> (Citation: AppleDocs Launch Agent Daemons). These LaunchDaemons have property list files which point to the executables that will be launched (Citation: Methods of Mac Malware Persistence).
 
Adversaries may install a new launch daemon that can be configured to execute at startup by using launchd or launchctl to load a plist into the appropriate directories (Citation: OSX Malware Detection). The daemon name may be disguised by using a name from a related operating system or benign software  (Citation: WireLurker). Launch Daemons may be created with administrator privileges, but are executed under root privileges, so an adversary may also use a service to escalate privileges from administrator to root.
 
The plist file permissions must be root:wheel, but the script or program that it points to has no such requirement. So, it is possible for poor configurations to allow an adversary to modify a current Launch Daemon’s executable and gain persistence or Privilege Escalation.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Launch Daemon](#atomic-test-1---launch-daemon)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Launch Daemon
Utilize LaunchDaemon to launch `Hello World`

**Supported Platforms:** macOS


#### Run it with these steps!
1. Place the following file (com.example.hello) in /System/Library/LaunchDaemons or /Library/LaunchDaemons
2.
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
<dict>
    <key>Label</key>
    <string>com.example.hello</string>
    <key>ProgramArguments</key>
    <array>
        <string>hello</string>
        <string>world</string>
    </array>
    <key>KeepAlive</key>
    <true/>
</dict>
</plist>


<br/>
