# T1016 - System Network Configuration Discovery
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1016)
<blockquote>Adversaries will likely look for details about the network configuration and settings of systems they access or through information discovery of remote systems. Several operating system administration utilities exist that can be used to gather this information. Examples include Arp, ipconfig/ifconfig, nbtstat, and route.

Detection: System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell.

Platforms: Linux, macOS, Windows

Data Sources: Process command-line parameters, Process monitoring

Permissions Required: User</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - System Network Configuration Discovery](#atomic-test-1---system-network-configuration-discovery)

- [Atomic Test #2 - System Network Configuration Discovery](#atomic-test-2---system-network-configuration-discovery)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - System Network Configuration Discovery
Identify network configuration information

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
ipconfig /all
netsh interface show
arp -a
nbtstat -n
net config
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - System Network Configuration Discovery
Identify network configuration information

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux


#### Run it with `sh`!
```
arp -a
netstat -ant | awk '{print $NF}' | grep -v '[a-z]' | sort | uniq -c
ifconfig
```
<br/>
