# T1016.001 - System Network Configuration Discovery: Internet Connection Discovery
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1016/001)
<blockquote>Adversaries may check for Internet connectivity on compromised systems. This may be performed during automated discovery and can be accomplished in numerous ways such as using [Ping](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0097), <code>tracert</code>, and GET requests to websites.

Adversaries may use the results and responses from these requests to determine if the system is capable of communicating with their C2 servers before attempting to connect to them. The results may also be used to identify routes, redirectors, and proxy servers.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Check internet connection using ping Windows](#atomic-test-1---check-internet-connection-using-ping-windows)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Check internet connection using ping freebsd, linux or macos](#atomic-test-2---check-internet-connection-using-ping-freebsd-linux-or-macos)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Check internet connection using ping Windows
Check internet connection using ping on Windows. The default target of the ping is 8.8.8.8 (Google Public DNS).

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** e184b6bd-fb28-48aa-9a59-13012e33d7dc





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| ping_target | target of the ping | url | 8.8.8.8|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`! 


```cmd
ping -n 4 #{ping_target}
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Check internet connection using ping freebsd, linux or macos
Check internet connection using ping on Linux, MACOS. The default target of the ping is 8.8.8.8 (Google Public DNS).

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux


**auto_generated_guid:** be8f4019-d8b6-434c-a814-53123cdcc11e





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| ping_target | target of the ping | url | 8.8.8.8|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `bash`! 


```bash
ping -n 4 #{ping_target}
```






<br/>
