# T1201 - Password Policy Discovery
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1201)
<blockquote>Password policies for networks are a way to enforce complex passwords that are difficult to guess or crack through [Brute Force](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1110). An adversary may attempt to access detailed information about the password policy used within an enterprise network. This would help the adversary to create a list of common passwords and launch dictionary and/or brute force attacks which adheres to the policy (e.g. if the minimum password length should be 8, then not trying passwords such as 'pass123'; not checking for more than 3-4 passwords per account if the lockout is set to 6 as to not lock out accounts).

Password policies can be set and discovered on Windows, Linux, and macOS systems. (Citation: Superuser Linux Password Policies) (Citation: Jamf User Password Policies)

### Windows
* <code>net accounts</code>
* <code>net accounts /domain</code>

### Linux
* <code>chage -l <username></code>
* <code>cat /etc/pam.d/common-password</code>

### macOS
* <code>pwpolicy getaccountpolicies</code></blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Examine password complexity policy - Ubuntu](#atomic-test-1---examine-password-complexity-policy---ubuntu)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Examine password complexity policy - CentOS/RHEL 7.x](#atomic-test-2---examine-password-complexity-policy---centosrhel-7x)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Examine password complexity policy - CentOS/RHEL 6.x](#atomic-test-3---examine-password-complexity-policy---centosrhel-6x)

- [Atomic Test #4 - Examine password expiration policy - All Linux](#atomic-test-4---examine-password-expiration-policy---all-linux)

- [Atomic Test #5 - Examine local password policy - Windows](#atomic-test-5---examine-local-password-policy---windows)

- [Atomic Test #6 - Examine domain password policy - Windows](#atomic-test-6---examine-domain-password-policy---windows)

- [Atomic Test #7 - Examine password policy - macOS](#atomic-test-7---examine-password-policy---macos)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Examine password complexity policy - Ubuntu
Lists the password complexity policy to console on Ubuntu Linux.

**Supported Platforms:** Ubuntu


#### Run it with `bash`!
```
cat /etc/pam.d/common-password
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Examine password complexity policy - CentOS/RHEL 7.x
Lists the password complexity policy to console on CentOS/RHEL 7.x Linux.

**Supported Platforms:** CentOS


#### Run it with `bash`!
```
cat /etc/security/pwquality.conf
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Examine password complexity policy - CentOS/RHEL 6.x
Lists the password complexity policy to console on CentOS/RHEL 6.x Linux.

**Supported Platforms:** CentOS


#### Run it with `bash`!
```
cat /etc/pam.d/system-auth

cat /etc/security/pwquality.conf
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #4 - Examine password expiration policy - All Linux
Lists the password expiration policy to console on CentOS/RHEL/Ubuntu.

**Supported Platforms:** Linux


#### Run it with `bash`!
```
cat /etc/login.defs
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #5 - Examine local password policy - Windows
Lists the local password policy to console on Windows.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
net accounts
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #6 - Examine domain password policy - Windows
Lists the domain password policy to console on Windows.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
net accounts /domain
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #7 - Examine password policy - macOS
Lists the password policy to console on Windows.

**Supported Platforms:** macOS


#### Run it with `bash`!
```
pwpolicy getaccountpolicies
```
<br/>
