# T1207 - DCShadow
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1207)
<blockquote>DCShadow is a method of manipulating Active Directory (AD) data, including objects and schemas, by registering (or reusing an inactive registration) and simulating the behavior of a Domain Controller (DC). (Citation: DCShadow Blog) (Citation: BlueHat DCShadow Jan 2018) Once registered, a rogue DC may be able to inject and replicate changes into AD infrastructure for any domain object, including credentials and keys.

Registering a rogue DC involves creating a new server and nTDSDSA objects in the Configuration partition of the AD schema, which requires Administrator privileges (either Domain or local to the DC) or the KRBTGT hash. (Citation: Adsecurity Mimikatz Guide)

This technique may bypass system logging and security monitors such as security information and event management (SIEM) products (since actions taken on a rogue DC may not be reported to these sensors). (Citation: DCShadow Blog) The technique may also be used to alter and delete replication and other associated metadata to obstruct forensic analysis. Adversaries may also utilize this technique to perform SID-History Injection and/or manipulate AD objects (such as accounts, access control lists, schemas) to establish backdoors for Persistence. (Citation: DCShadow Blog) (Citation: BlueHat DCShadow Jan 2018)

Detection: Monitor and analyze network traffic associated with data replication (such as calls to DrsAddEntry, DrsReplicaAdd, and especially GetNCChanges) between DCs as well as to/from non DC hosts. (Citation: GitHub DCSYNCMonitor) (Citation: DCShadow Blog) (Citation: BlueHat DCShadow Jan 2018) DC replication will naturally take place every 15 minutes but can be triggered by an attacker or by legitimate urgent changes (ex: passwords). (Citation: BlueHat DCShadow Jan 2018) Also consider monitoring and alerting on the replication of AD objects (Audit Detailed Directory Service Replication Events 4928 and 4929). (Citation: DCShadow Blog)

Leverage AD directory synchronization (DirSync) to monitor changes to directory state using AD replication cookies. (Citation: Microsoft DirSync) (Citation: ADDSecurity DCShadow Feb 2018)

Baseline and periodically analyze the Configuration partition of the AD schema and alert on creation of nTDSDSA objects. (Citation: BlueHat DCShadow Jan 2018)

Investigate usage of Kerberos Service Principal Names (SPNs), especially those associated with services (beginning with “GC/”) by computers not present in the DC organizational unit (OU). The SPN associated with the Directory Replication Service (DRS) Remote Protocol interface (GUID E3514235–4B06–11D1-AB04–00C04FC2DCD2) can be set without logging. (Citation: ADDSecurity DCShadow Feb 2018) A rogue DC must authenticate as a service using these two SPNs for the replication process to successfully complete.

Platforms: Windows

Data Sources: API monitoring, Authentication logs, Network protocol analysis, Packet capture

Defense Bypassed: Log analysis

Permissions Required: Administrator

Contributors: Vincent Le Toux</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - DCShadow - Mimikatz](#atomic-test-1---dcshadow---mimikatz)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - DCShadow - Mimikatz
Utilize Mimikatz DCShadow method to simulate behavior of a Domain Controller

[DCShadow](https://www.dcshadow.com/)
[Additional Reference](http://www.labofapenetrationtester.com/2018/04/dcshadow.html)

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Inputs
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| output_file | TODO | todo | TODO|

#### Run it with these steps!
1. Start Mimikatz and use !processtoken (and not token::elevate - as it elevates a thread) to escalate to SYSTEM.
2. Start another mimikatz with DA privileges. This is the instance which registers a DC and is used to "push" the attributes.
3. lsadump::dcshadow /object:ops-user19$ /attribute:userAccountControl /value:532480
4. lsadump::dcshadow /push


<br/>
