# T1053.004 - Launchd
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1053/004)
<blockquote>Adversaries may abuse the <code>Launchd</code> daemon to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. The <code>launchd</code> daemon, native to macOS, is responsible for loading and maintaining services within the operating system. This process loads the parameters for each launch-on-demand system-level daemon from the property list (plist) files found in <code>/System/Library/LaunchDaemons</code> and <code>/Library/LaunchDaemons</code> (Citation: AppleDocs Launch Agent Daemons). These LaunchDaemons have property list files which point to the executables that will be launched (Citation: Methods of Mac Malware Persistence).

An adversary may use the <code>launchd</code> daemon in macOS environments to schedule new executables to run at system startup or on a scheduled basis for persistence. <code>launchd</code> can also be abused to run a process under the context of a specified account. Daemons, such as <code>launchd</code>, run with the permissions of the root user account, and will operate regardless of which user account is logged in.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Event Monitor Daemon Persistence](#atomic-test-1---event-monitor-daemon-persistence)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Event Monitor Daemon Persistence
This test adds persistence via a plist to execute via the macOS Event Monitor Daemon.

**Supported Platforms:** macOS


**auto_generated_guid:** 11979f23-9b9d-482a-9935-6fc9cd022c3e





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| script_location | evil plist location | path | $PathToAtomicsFolder/T1053.004/src/atomicredteam_T1053_004.plist|
| script_destination | Path where to move the evil plist | path | /etc/emond.d/rules/atomicredteam_T1053_004.plist|
| empty_file | Random name of the empty file used to trigger emond service | string | randomflag|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `bash`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```bash
sudo cp #{script_location} #{script_destination}
sudo touch /private/var/db/emondClients/#{empty_file}
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```bash
sudo rm #{script_destination}
sudo rm /private/var/db/emondClients/#{empty_file}
```





<br/>
