# T1547.014 - Active Setup
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1547/014)
<blockquote>Adversaries may achieve persistence by adding a Registry key to the Active Setup of the local machine. Active Setup is a Windows mechanism that is used to execute programs when a user logs in. The value stored in the Registry key will be executed after a user logs into the computer.(Citation: Klein Active Setup 2010) These programs will be executed under the context of the user and will have the account's associated permissions level.

Adversaries may abuse Active Setup by creating a key under <code> HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\</code> and setting a malicious value for <code>StubPath</code>. This value will serve as the program that will be executed when a user logs into the computer.(Citation: Mandiant Glyer APT 2010)(Citation: Citizenlab Packrat 2015)(Citation: FireEye CFR Watering Hole 2012)(Citation: SECURELIST Bright Star 2015)(Citation: paloalto Tropic Trooper 2016)

Adversaries can abuse these components to execute malware, such as remote access tools, to maintain persistence through system reboots. Adversaries may also use [Masquerading](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036) to make the Registry entries look as if they are associated with legitimate programs.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - HKLM - Add atomic_test key to launch executable as part of user setup](#atomic-test-1---hklm---add-atomic_test-key-to-launch-executable-as-part-of-user-setup)

- [Atomic Test #2 - HKLM - Add malicious StubPath value to existing Active Setup Entry](#atomic-test-2---hklm---add-malicious-stubpath-value-to-existing-active-setup-entry)

- [Atomic Test #3 - HKLM - re-execute 'Internet Explorer Core Fonts' StubPath payload by decreasing version number](#atomic-test-3---hklm---re-execute-internet-explorer-core-fonts-stubpath-payload-by-decreasing-version-number)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - HKLM - Add atomic_test key to launch executable as part of user setup
This test will create an "atomic_test" key under 'HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components' to launch calc by configuring an active setup executable and 
forcing to run active setup using the "runonce.exe /AlternateShellStartup" command. 
Without the "runonce.exe /AlternateShellStartup" command it would run during the next logon for each user.

Note: If you logout before running the cleanup command, you will be required to go through the OOBE (out-of-box experience) setup sequence to log back in. 
The payload will only run once unless the cleanup command is run in between tests.

[Active Setup Explained](https://helgeklein.com/blog/active-setup-explained/)

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** deff4586-0517-49c2-981d-bbea24d48d71





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| payload | Payload to run once during login | string | C:&#92;Windows&#92;System32&#92;calc.exe|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
New-Item "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components" -Name "atomic_test" -Force
Set-ItemProperty "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\atomic_test" "(Default)" "ART TEST" -Force
Set-ItemProperty "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\atomic_test" "StubPath" "#{payload}" -Force 
& $env:SYSTEMROOT\system32\runonce.exe /AlternateShellStartup
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
Remove-Item "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\atomic_test" -Force -ErrorAction Ignore
Remove-Item "HKCU:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\atomic_test" -Force -ErrorAction Ignore
```





<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - HKLM - Add malicious StubPath value to existing Active Setup Entry
This test will add a StubPath entry to the Active Setup native registry key associated with 'Internet Explorer Core Fonts' (UUID {C9E9A340-D1F1-11D0-821E-444553540600}) 
Said key doesn't have a StubPath value by default, by adding one it will launch calc by forcing to run active setup using runonce.exe /AlternateShellStartup. 
Without the last command it will normally run on next user logon. Note: this test will only run once successfully if no cleanup command is run in between test.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** 39e417dd-4fed-4d9c-ae3a-ba433b4d0e9a





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| payload | Payload to run once during login | string | C:&#92;Windows&#92;System32&#92;calc.exe|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
Set-ItemProperty "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\{C9E9A340-D1F1-11D0-821E-444553540600}" "StubPath" "#{payload}" -Force
& $env:SYSTEMROOT\system32\runonce.exe /AlternateShellStartup
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
Remove-ItemProperty "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\{C9E9A340-D1F1-11D0-821E-444553540600}" -Name "StubPath" -Force
Remove-ItemProperty "HKCU:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\{C9E9A340-D1F1-11D0-821E-444553540600}" -Name "Version" -Force
```





<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - HKLM - re-execute 'Internet Explorer Core Fonts' StubPath payload by decreasing version number
This test will decrease the version number of the 'Internet Explorer Core Fonts' (UUID {C9E9A340-D1F1-11D0-821E-444553540600}) registry key for the current user, 
which will force the StubPath payload (if set) to execute.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** 04d55cef-f283-40ba-ae2a-316bc3b5e78c






#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
Set-ItemProperty -Path "HKCU:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\{C9E9A340-D1F1-11D0-821E-444553540600}" -Name "Version" -Value "0,0,0,0"
& $env:SYSTEMROOT\system32\runonce.exe /AlternateShellStartup
```






<br/>
