# T1336.002 - Masquerading: Right-to-Left Override

## Description from ATT&CK

Adversaries may abuse the right-to-left override (RTLO or RLO) character (U+202E) to disguise a string and/or file name to make it appear benign. RTLO is a non-printing Unicode character that causes the text that follows it to be displayed in reverse. For example, a Windows screensaver executable named March 25 \u202Excod.scr will display as March 25 rcs.docx. A JavaScript file named photo_high_re\u202Egnp.js will be displayed as photo_high_resj.png.[1]

Adversaries may abuse the RTLO character as a means of tricking a user into executing what they think is a benign file type. A common use of this technique is with Spearphishing Attachment/Malicious File since it can trick both end users and defenders if they are not aware of how their tools display and render the RTLO character. Use of the RTLO character has been seen in many targeted intrusion attempts and criminal activity.[2][3] RTLO can be used in the Windows Registry as well, where regedit.exe displays the reversed characters but the command line tool reg.exe does not by default.

[Source]https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/002/

## Atomic Tests 

-[Atomic Test #1: Right-to-Left Override Bat File on Windows]

Runs a batch file that opens command and echos "Hello World" and asks for user to press enter to exit. The filename is evil_filefdp.bat, but with Right-to-left override it appears at evil_filetab.pdf.

**Support Platforms:** Windows

#### Attack Commands

No attack commands are used, the user will need to open the supplied file to make it run. 

#### Cleanup Commands 

Delete the file

#### Dependencies
User's will need to grab the file from the repository.
