# T1574.009 - Hijack Execution Flow: Path Interception by Unquoted Path
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/009)
<blockquote>Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking vulnerable file path references. Adversaries can take advantage of paths that lack surrounding quotations by placing an executable in a higher level directory within the path, so that Windows will choose the adversary's executable to launch.

Service paths (Citation: Microsoft CurrentControlSet Services) and shortcut paths may also be vulnerable to path interception if the path has one or more spaces and is not surrounded by quotation marks (e.g., <code>C:\unsafe path with space\program.exe</code> vs. <code>"C:\safe path with space\program.exe"</code>). (Citation: Help eliminate unquoted path) (stored in Windows Registry keys) An adversary can place an executable in a higher level directory of the path, and Windows will resolve that executable instead of the intended executable. For example, if the path in a shortcut is <code>C:\program files\myapp.exe</code>, an adversary may create a program at <code>C:\program.exe</code> that will be run instead of the intended program. (Citation: Windows Unquoted Services) (Citation: Windows Privilege Escalation Guide)

This technique can be used for persistence if executables are called on a regular basis, as well as privilege escalation if intercepted executables are started by a higher privileged process.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Execution of program.exe as service with unquoted service path](#atomic-test-1---execution-of-programexe-as-service-with-unquoted-service-path)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Execution of program.exe as service with unquoted service path
When a service is created whose executable path contains spaces and isn’t enclosed within quotes, leads to a vulnerability
known as Unquoted Service Path which allows a user to gain SYSTEM privileges.
In this case, if an executable program.exe in C:\ exists, C:\program.exe will be executed instead of test.exe in C:\Program Files\subfolder\test.exe.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** 2770dea7-c50f-457b-84c4-c40a47460d9f





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| service_executable | Path of the executable used for the service and as the hijacked program.exe | path | PathToAtomicsFolder&#92;T1574.009&#92;bin&#92;WindowsServiceExample.exe|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```cmd
copy #{service_executable} "C:\Program Files\windows_service.exe"
copy #{service_executable} "C:\program.exe"
sc create "Example Service" binpath= "C:\Program Files\windows_service.exe" Displayname= "Example Service" start= auto
sc start "Example Service"
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```cmd
sc stop "Example Service" >nul 2>&1
sc delete "Example Service" >nul 2>&1
del "C:\Program Files\windows_service.exe" >nul 2>&1
del "C:\program.exe" >nul 2>&1
del "C:\Time.log" >nul 2>&1
```





<br/>
