# T1037 - Logon Scripts
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1037)
<blockquote>### Windows

Windows allows logon scripts to be run whenever a specific user or group of users log into a system. (Citation: TechNet Logon Scripts) The scripts can be used to perform administrative functions, which may often execute other programs or send information to an internal logging server.

If adversaries can access these scripts, they may insert additional code into the logon script to execute their tools when a user logs in. This code can allow them to maintain persistence on a single system, if it is a local script, or to move laterally within a network, if the script is stored on a central server and pushed to many systems. Depending on the access configuration of the logon scripts, either local credentials or an administrator account may be necessary.

### Mac

Mac allows login and logoff hooks to be run as root whenever a specific user logs into or out of a system. A login hook tells Mac OS X to execute a certain script when a user logs in, but unlike startup items, a login hook executes as root (Citation: creating login hook). There can only be one login hook at a time though. If adversaries can access these scripts, they can insert additional code to the script to execute their tools when a user logs in.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Logon Scripts](#atomic-test-1---logon-scripts)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Logon Scripts - Mac](#atomic-test-2---logon-scripts---mac)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Logon Scripts
Added Via Reg.exe

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Inputs
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| script_command | Command To Execute | String | cmd.exe /c calc.exe|

#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
REG.exe ADD HKCU\Environment /v UserInitMprLogonScript /t REG_MULTI_SZ /d "#{script_command}"
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Logon Scripts - Mac
Mac logon script

**Supported Platforms:** macOS


#### Run it with these steps!
1. Create the required plist file

    sudo touch /private/var/root/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist

2. Populate the plist with the location of your shell script

    sudo defaults write com.apple.loginwindow LoginHook /Library/Scripts/AtomicRedTeam.sh

3. Create the required plist file in the target user's Preferences directory

	  touch /Users/$USER/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist

4. Populate the plist with the location of your shell script

	  defaults write com.apple.loginwindow LoginHook /Library/Scripts/AtomicRedTeam.sh


<br/>
