# T1135 - Network Share Discovery
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1135)
<blockquote>Networks often contain shared network drives and folders that enable users to access file directories on various systems across a network. 

===Windows===

File sharing over a Windows network occurs over the SMB protocol. (Citation: Wikipedia Shared Resource) (Citation: TechNet Shared Folder)

Net can be used to query a remote system for available shared drives using the <code>net view \\remotesystem</code> command. It can also be used to query shared drives on the local system using <code>net share</code>.

Adversaries may look for folders and drives shared on remote systems as a means of identifying sources of information to gather as a precursor for Collection and to identify potential systems of interest for Lateral Movement.

===Mac===

On Mac, locally mounted shares can be viewed with the <code>df -aH</code> command.

Detection: System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Normal, benign system and network events related to legitimate remote system discovery may be uncommon, depending on the environment and how they are used. Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell.

Platforms: macOS, Windows

Data Sources: Process Monitoring, Process command-line parameters, Network protocol analysis, Process use of network

Permissions Required: User</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Network Share Discovery](#atomic-test-1---network-share-discovery)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Network Share Discovery command prompt](#atomic-test-2---network-share-discovery-command-prompt)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Network Share Discovery PowerShell](#atomic-test-3---network-share-discovery-powershell)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Network Share Discovery
Network Share Discovery

**Supported Platforms:** macOS, Linux


#### Inputs
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| computer_name | Computer name to find a mount on. | string | computer1|

#### Run it with `sh`!
```
df -aH
smbutil view -g //#{computer_name}
showmount #{computer_name}
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Network Share Discovery command prompt
Network Share Discovery utilizing the command prompt

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Inputs
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| computer_name | Computer name to find a mount on. | string | computer1|

#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
net view \\#{computer_name}
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Network Share Discovery PowerShell
Network Share Discovery utilizing PowerShell

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Inputs
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| computer_name | Computer name to find a mount on. | string | computer1|

#### Run it with `powershell`!
```
net view \\#{computer_name}
get-smbshare -Name #{computer_name}
```
<br/>
