# T1122 - Component Object Model Hijacking
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1122)
<blockquote>The  (Citation: Microsoft Component Object Model) (COM) is a system within Windows to enable interaction between software components through the operating system. (Citation: Microsoft Component Object Model) Adversaries can use this system to insert malicious code that can be executed in place of legitimate software through hijacking the COM references and relationships as a means for persistence. Hijacking a COM object requires a change in the Windows Registry to replace a reference to a legitimate system component which may cause that component to not work when executed. When that system component is executed through normal system operation the adversary's code will be executed instead. (Citation: GDATA COM Hijacking) An adversary is likely to hijack objects that are used frequently enough to maintain a consistent level of persistence, but are unlikely to break noticeable functionality within the system as to avoid system instability that could lead to detection.

Detection: There are opportunities to detect COM hijacking by searching for Registry references that have been replaced and through Registry operations replacing know binary paths with unknown paths. Even though some third party applications define user COM objects, the presence of objects within <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Classes\CLSID\</code> may be anomalous and should be investigated since user objects will be loaded prior to machine objects in <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Classes\CLSID\</code>. (Citation: Endgame COM Hijacking) Registry entries for existing COM objects may change infrequently. When an entry with a known good path and binary is replaced or changed to an unusual value to point to an unknown binary in a new location, then it may indicate suspicious behavior and should be investigated. Likewise, if software DLL loads are collected and analyzed, any unusual DLL load that can be correlated with a COM object Registry modification may indicate COM hijacking has been performed.

Platforms: Windows

Data Sources: Windows Registry, DLL monitoring, Loaded DLLs

Defense Bypassed: Autoruns Analysis

Permissions Required: User

Contributors: ENDGAME</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Component Object Model Hijacking](#atomic-test-1---component-object-model-hijacking)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Component Object Model Hijacking
Hijack COM Object used by certutil.exe

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
reg import ..\src\COMHijack.reg
certutil.exe -CAInfo
reg import ..\src\COMHijackCleanup.reg
```
<br/>
