# T1140 - Deobfuscate/Decode Files or Information
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1140)
<blockquote>Adversaries may use Obfuscated Files or Information to hide artifacts of an intrusion from analysis. They may require separate mechanisms to decode or deobfuscate that information depending on how they intend to use it. Methods for doing that include built-in functionality of malware, Scripting, PowerShell, or by using utilities present on the system.

One such example is use of certutil to decode a remote access tool portable executable file that has been hidden inside a certificate file. (Citation: Malwarebytes Targeted Attack against Saudi Arabia)

Another example is using the Windows <code>copy /b</code> command to reassemble binary fragments into a malicious payload. (Citation: Carbon Black Obfuscation Sept 2016)

Payloads may be compressed, archived, or encrypted in order to avoid detection. These payloads may be used with Obfuscated Files or Information during Initial Access or later to mitigate detection. Sometimes a user's action may be required to open it for deobfuscation or decryption as part of User Execution. The user may also be required to input a password to open a password protected compressed/encrypted file that was provided by the adversary. (Citation: Volexity PowerDuke November 2016) Adversaries may also used compressed or archived scripts, such as Javascript.

Detection: Detecting the action of deobfuscating or decoding files or information may be difficult depending on the implementation. If the functionality is contained within malware and uses the Windows API, then attempting to detect malicious behavior before or after the action may yield better results than attempting to perform analysis on loaded libraries or API calls. If scripts are used, then collecting the scripts for analysis may be necessary. Perform process and command-line monitoring to detect potentially malicious behavior related to scripts and system utilities such as certutil.

Monitor the execution file paths and command-line arguments for common archive file applications and extensions, such as those for Zip and RAR archive tools, and correlate with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives from normal user and administrator behavior.

Platforms: Windows

Data Sources: File monitoring, Process Monitoring, Process command-line parameters

Defense Bypassed: Anti-virus, Host intrusion prevention systems, Signature-based detection, Network intrusion detection system

Permissions Required: User

Contributors: Matthew Demaske, Adaptforward, Red Canary</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Deobfuscate/Decode Files Or Information](#atomic-test-1---deobfuscatedecode-files-or-information)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Certutil Rename and Decode](#atomic-test-2---certutil-rename-and-decode)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Deobfuscate/Decode Files Or Information
Encode/Decode executable

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Inputs
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| executable | name of executable | path | c:\file.exe|

#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
certutil.exe -encode #{executable} file.txt
certutil.exe -decode file.txt #{executable}
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Certutil Rename and Decode
Rename certutil and decode a file. This is in reference to latest research by FireEye [here](https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2018/09/apt10-targeting-japanese-corporations-using-updated-ttps.html)

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Inputs
| Name | Description | Type | Default Value | 
|------|-------------|------|---------------|
| executable | name of executable/file to decode | path | c:\file.exe|

#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
cmd.exe /c copy %windir%\\system32\\certutil.exe %temp%tcm.tmp
cmd.exe /c %temp%tcm.tmp -decode #{executable}
```
<br/>
