# T1063 - Security Software Discovery
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1063)
<blockquote>Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of security software, configurations, defensive tools, and sensors that are installed on the system. This may include things such as local firewall rules, anti-virus, and virtualization. These checks may be built into early-stage remote access tools.

===Windows===

Example commands that can be used to obtain security software information are netsh, <code>reg query</code> with Reg, <code>dir</code> with cmd, and Tasklist, but other indicators of discovery behavior may be more specific to the type of software or security system the adversary is looking for.

===Mac===

It's becoming more common to see macOS malware perform checks for LittleSnitch and KnockKnock software.

Detection: System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as lateral movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell.

Platforms: macOS, Windows

Data Sources: File monitoring, Process command-line parameters, Process monitoring

Permissions Required: User, Administrator, SYSTEM</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Security Software Discovery](#atomic-test-1---security-software-discovery)

- [Atomic Test #2 - Security Software Discovery - powershell](#atomic-test-2---security-software-discovery---powershell)

- [Atomic Test #3 - Security Software Discovery - ps](#atomic-test-3---security-software-discovery---ps)

- [Atomic Test #4 - Security Software Discovery - Sysmon Service](#atomic-test-4---security-software-discovery---sysmon-service)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Security Software Discovery
Methods to identify Security Software on an endpoint

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
netsh.exe advfirewall firewall show all profiles
tasklist.exe
tasklist.exe | findstr /i virus
tasklist.exe | findstr /i cb
tasklist.exe | findstr /i defender
tasklist.exe | findstr /i cylance
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #2 - Security Software Discovery - powershell
Methods to identify Security Software on an endpoint

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `powershell`!
```
get-process | ?{$_.Description -like "*virus*"}
get-process | ?{$_.Description -like "*carbonblack*"}
get-process | ?{$_.Description -like "*defender*"}
get-process | ?{$_.Description -like "*cylance*"}
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #3 - Security Software Discovery - ps
Methods to identify Security Software on an endpoint

**Supported Platforms:** Linux, macOS


#### Run it with `sh`!
```
ps -ef | grep Little\ Snitch | grep -v grep
ps aux | grep CbOsxSensorService
```
<br/>
<br/>

## Atomic Test #4 - Security Software Discovery - Sysmon Service
Discovery of an installed Sysinternals Sysmon service using driver altitude (even if the name is changed).

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `command_prompt`!
```
fltmc.exe | findstr.exe 385201
```
<br/>
