# T1193 - Spearphishing Attachment
## [Description from ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Technique/T1193)
<blockquote>Spearphishing attachment is a specific variant of spearphishing. Spearphishing attachment is different from other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use of malware attached to an email. All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries attach a file to the spearphishing email and usually rely upon [User Execution](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204) to gain execution.

There are many options for the attachment such as Microsoft Office documents, executables, PDFs, or archived files. Upon opening the attachment (and potentially clicking past protections), the adversary's payload exploits a vulnerability or directly executes on the user's system. The text of the spearphishing email usually tries to give a plausible reason why the file should be opened, and may explain how to bypass system protections in order to do so. The email may also contain instructions on how to decrypt an attachment, such as a zip file password, in order to evade email boundary defenses. Adversaries frequently manipulate file extensions and icons in order to make attached executables appear to be document files, or files exploiting one application appear to be a file for a different one.</blockquote>

## Atomic Tests

- [Atomic Test #1 - Download Phishing Attachment - VBScript](#atomic-test-1---download-phishing-attachment---vbscript)


<br/>

## Atomic Test #1 - Download Phishing Attachment - VBScript
The macro-enabled Excel file contains VBScript which opens your default web browser and opens it to [google.com](http://google.com). 
The below will successfully download the macro-enabled Excel file to the current location.

**Supported Platforms:** Windows


#### Run it with `powershell`!
```
if (-not(Test-Path HKLM:SOFTWARE\Classes\Excel.Application)){
  return 'Please install Microsoft Excel before running this test.'
}
else{
  $url = 'https://github.com/redcanaryco/atomic-red-team/blob/master/atomics/T1193/PhishingAttachment.xlsm'
  $fileName = 'PhishingAttachment.xlsm'
  New-Item -Type File -Force -Path $fileName | out-null
  $wc = New-Object System.Net.WebClient
  $wc.Encoding = [System.Text.Encoding]::UTF8
  [Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
  ($wc.DownloadString("$url")) | Out-File $fileName
}
```
<br/>
